---
uid: 01KAGVW8GW1T2N2XV0TRCJS80C
project: you-da-hoe
source_file: 010516 renewal of certification of treatment program rules.docx
converted_date: '2025-11-24T17:18:06.969734'
wordcount: 3395
version: 1
---

IDAHO ADMINISTRATIVE CODE IDAPA 16.07.20 Department of Health and Welfare ASUD Treatment & RSS Facilities & Programs Section 135 Page 20 135.

RENEWAL OF APPROVAL OF AN ALCOHOL AND SUBSTANCE USE DISORDERS TREATMENT OR RECOVERY SUPPORT SERVICES PROGRAM. Application for renewal of approval of a program must be made to the Department at least ninety (90) days prior to the expiration date on the current certificate of approval and must include the following: (5-1-10) 01. Application for Renewal.

To renew a certificate of approval, the applicant must provide the following items: (5-1-10) a. A completed and signed Department renewal application form. Application for renewal forms are available upon written request or online at the Department of Health and Welfare website identified in Section 005 of these rules. (5-1-10) b. A non-refundable renewal application fee for each facility. The renewal application fees are as follows: (5-1-10) i. Treatment facility is one hundred dollars (\$100); (5-1-10) ii. Treatment and recovery support services facility is one hundred dollars (\$100); and (5-1-10) iii. Recovery support services facility is fifty dollars (\$50). (5-1-10) c. A written statement that discloses the following with respect to the applicant, owner, or person proposed as executive director: (5-1-10) i. Any revocation of a license, certification, or approval that is held or previously held by in Idaho or any other state or jurisdiction; or (5-1-10) ii. Other disciplinary action taken or in the process of being taken in Idaho or any other state or jurisdiction. This includes on-going investigations and Medicaid investigations. (5-1-10) d. A written statement that discloses any present or previous issues, since the previous renewal of approval, involving the Internal Revenue Service or State of Idaho Tax Commission. (5-1-10) e. Disclosure of any changes in ownership, governing body, or administration not previously made known to the Department as required in Section 160 of these rules. (5-1-10) f. Copies of current, valid certificates, permits, licenses, or documentation listed in Subsection 130.01 of these rules. (5-1-10) g. The written plan for an inventory of treatments and annual review as described in Section 130.01 of these rules. (5-1-10) h. A copy of the lease if the real property in which the program is located is leased. (5-1-10) 02. Proof of Insurance. The minimum insurance required for all programs is professional liability, commercial general liability, and comprehensive liability for all program vehicles. All facilities must maintain professional liability insurance in the amount of at least five hundred thousand dollars to one million dollars (\$500,000/\$1,000,000) and general liability and automobile insurance in the amount of at least one million dollars to three million dollars (\$1,000,000/\$3,000,000). Copies of the declarations face-sheet for all policies must be included with the application. (5-1-10) 03. Electronic Version of Agency Operating Policies and Procedures. A complete electronic version of the program's operating policies and procedures based on these rules. (5-1-10) 04. Identification of the Executive Director, Clinical Supervisor, and Treatment Supervisor. In addition to documentation that demonstrates compliance with Sections 215, 216, 217, and 218 of these rules, the ARCHIVE 2012 ARCHIVE IDAHO ADMINISTRATIVE CODE IDAPA 16.07.20 Department of Health and Welfare ASUD Treatment & RSS Facilities & Programs Section 138 Page 21 applicant must provide the following information for the staff identified as Executive Director, Clinical Supervisor, and Treatment Supervisor. (5-1-10) a. Current resume which includes a detailed work history with start and end dates, job descriptions, and contact information for references. (5-1-10) b. Copies of applicable licenses and certifications. (5-1-10) 136. \-- 137. (RESERVED) 138. JOINT COMMISSION OR CARF ACCREDITATION. The Department may approve programs or renew a program's certificate of approval based upon Joint Commission or CARF accreditation under the following conditions: (5-1-10) 01. Organization Chart Verifying Staffing Credentials. Organization chart with verification that staff meet minimum credential or certification standards; (5-1-10) 02. Criminal History and Background Checks. Satisfactory evidence that the owner, applicant, person proposed as executive director and all employees, transfers, reinstated former employees, student interns, contractors, volunteers, and any other persons hired or contracted with after May 1, 2010, who provide care or services or have access to clients have successfully passed a criminal history and background check as described in Section 009 of these rules; (5-1-10) 03. Tuberculosis Testing. The personnel policies and procedures must establish tuberculosis testing requirements. All staff members, volunteers, and student practice/ISAS interns, must have upon employment, or engagement, and annually thereafter, a tuberculin skin test by the Mantoux method. Staff members, volunteers, and student practice/ISAS interns who are known to be a positive reactor may have a chest x-ray examination in lieu of a required tuberculin skin test. Personnel who have active tuberculosis must be restricted from employment and attendance at the facility until it is determined by laboratory evaluation that the tuberculosis is non-infectious. Results of the testing must be documented in personnel record; and (5-1-10) 04. Application Fee. Payment of non-refundable application or renewal fee as described in Sections 130 and 135 of these rules. (5-1-10) 139. (RESERVED)

140\. REVIEW OF APPLICATION AND INSPECTION PROCESS. 01. Departmental Review of Application for Approval or Renewal. Upon receipt of the completed application for approval or renewal of a program, the Department will review and advise the applicant within sixty (60) days if the application meets the requirements of Section 130 or Section 135 of these rules, whichever is appropriate. (5-1-10) a. If the Department determines the application meets the requirements in Sections 130 or 135 of these rules, the Department will schedule an inspection of the program\'s facility site(s). The Department will make reasonable efforts to schedule an inspection within thirty (30) days of its determination. (5-1-10) b. If the Department determines the application does not meet the requirements in Section 130 or 135 of these rules, it will be returned to the applicant, with written recommendations for correction and completion of the recommendations. Failure to meet the application requirements within six (6) months of the original date of application may result in a denial of the application. If the application is denied, the applicant may reapply no sooner than one (1) year from the date of the denial. (5-1-10) 02. Program Facility Inspection. The inspection of the program\'s facility site(s) will be conducted by a person or persons appointed by the Department. The Department may use the services of any qualified person or organization, either public or private, to examine, survey, or inspect any entity requesting or holding a certificate of program approval. (5-1-10) ARCHIVE 2012 ARCHIVE IDAHO ADMINISTRATIVE CODE IDAPA 16.07.20 Department of Health and Welfare ASUD Treatment & RSS Facilities & Programs Section 145 Page 22 a. The applicant\'s program facility site(s) will be open to Departmental inspection at any reasonable time necessary to determine compliance with these rules and with the "Alcoholism and Intoxication Treatment Act," Sections 39-301, et seq., Idaho Code. Inspections may be made without prior notice to the applicant. (5-1-10) b. The applicant must, in compliance with federal and state confidentiality requirements, provide for review of the following: (5-1-10) i. Any and all client records; (5-1-10) ii. Administrative records; (5-1-10) iii. Financial statements; (5-1-10) iv. Other state and local inspection reports; and (5-1-10) v. Other such documents required by the Department to make its determination, including any information that might have changed since the time the application was submitted. (5-1-10) c. The applicant must arrange for Departmental inspection of the premises of any of its contractors to determine compliance with applicable requirements of these rules and with the "Alcoholism and Intoxication Treatment Act," Sections 39-301, et seq., Idaho Code. (5-1-10) 03. Responsibility of the Department. Within sixty (60) days of the date of the inspection, the Department must submit a written report of findings to the applicant. Upon completion of the application and inspection process, the Department may take any of the following actions: (5-1-10) a. Issue a certificate of approval for a period of two (2) years if a facility is in compliance with the pertinent score in each category and overall weighted score for that length of time as set forth in Subsection 145 of these rules and minimum standards; (5-1-10) b. Issue a certificate of approval for a period of one (1) year if a facility is in compliance with the pertinent score in each category and overall weighted score for that length of time as set forth in Subsection 145 of these rules and minimum standards; (5-1-10) c. Issue a provisional certificate of approval for a period of six (6) months contingent on an approved plan to correct all deficiencies prior to the expiration of the provisional certificate if a facility is in compliance with the pertinent score in each category and overall weighted score for that length of time as set forth in Subsection 145 of these rules and minimum standards. A facility will not be issued more than one (1) provisional certificate of approval in any two (2) year period; or (5-1-10) d. Deny a certificate of approval or renewal. (5-1-10) 141. \-- 144. (RESERVED) 145. CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL. 01. Issuance of a Certificate of Approval. If the Department is persuaded by a preponderance of the evidence that the application and inspection demonstrates that the facility, program, or service is in substantial compliance with these rules and minimum standards, the Department will issue a certificate of approval based upon the following scoring: ARCHIVE 2012 ARCHIVE IDAHO ADMINISTRATIVE CODE IDAPA 16.07.20 Department of Health and Welfare ASUD Treatment & RSS Facilities & Programs Section 150 Page 23 (5-1-10) 02. Limitations. A certificate of approval is issued in the name of the persons, firm, partnership, association, corporation, or governmental units identified on the application and only to the address of the facility stated in the application for the period and services specified. A certificate of approval is not transferable or assignable from one (1) individual to another, from one (1) business entity or governmental unit to another or from one (1) location to another. When a change of ownership, operator, or location occurs, the program must follow the procedures set forth in Subsection 160 of these rules. (5-1-10) 03. One Provisional Certificate of Approval Per Twenty-Four Month Period. Only one (1) provisional certificate of approval per facility will be issued to a program within a twenty-four (24) month period. (5-1-10) a. The facility being issued the provisional certificate of approval must be clearly specified. (5-1-10) b. The issuance of a provisional certificate of approval for a facility, will not affect the standing of any of the program\'s other certificates of approval that have not been issued provisionally. (5-1-10) 04. Posting of the Certificate of Approval. The certificate of approval or provisional certificate of approval must be posted in a conspicuous place at each of the program\'s facilities. (5-1-10) 05. Expiration. A certificate of approval issued to an alcohol and substance use disorders treatment or recovery support services program will, unless sooner suspended or revoked, expire on the date designated on the certificate of approval. (5-1-10) 06. Responsibility. The individual or governing board of the entity named on the certificate of approval is responsible for the operation of the alcohol and substance use disorders treatment or recovery support services program and compliance with these rules and minimum standards. (5-1-10) 146. \-- 149. (RESERVED) 150. DENIAL, SUSPENSION, AND REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL. 01.

Denial of a Certificate of Approval or Renewal. The Department will deny a certificate of approval or renewal when a program or facility receives a score of sixty-four percent (64%) or below in any category, or an overall weighted score of sixty-four percent (64%) or below, or both. Additional causes for denial of a certificate of approval or renewal include any of the following: (5-1-10) a. The applicant, owner, or person proposed as executive director: (5-1-10) i. Has violated any conditions of a certificate of approval; (5-1-10) ii. Has willfully misrepresented or omitted material information on the application or other documents pertaining to obtaining or renewing any certificate of approval; (5-1-10) iii. Has been found guilty of fraud, gross negligence, abuse assault, battery, or exploitation of children TABLE 145.01 - CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL SCORING Duration of Certificate of Approval Score in Each Category Overall Weighted Score 24 months 80% - 100% 90% - 100% 12 months 75% - 79% 75% - 89% 6 months (provisional) 65% - 74% 65% - 74% ARCHIVE 2012 ARCHIVE IDAHO ADMINISTRATIVE CODE IDAPA 16.07.20 Department of Health and Welfare ASUD Treatment & RSS Facilities & Programs Section 150 Page 24 or vulnerable adults. (5-1-10) iv. Has been denied or has had revoked any license or certificate issued by the Department or under Title 54, Idaho Code; (5-1-10) v. Has been convicted of operating any facility without a license; (5-1-10) vi. Has been enjoined from operating any facility; (5-1-10) vii. Has been convicted of a felony or misdemeanor drug or alcohol offense within the past five (5) years, other than a minor traffic violation or infraction; or (5-1-10) viii. Is directly under the control or influence of any person who is described in Subsections 150.01.a.i. through 150.01.a.vii. of these rules; or (5-1-10) b. Any act or omission adversely affecting the welfare of any client, employee, contractor, or volunteer is being permitted, aided, performed, or abetted by the facility, applicant, owner, executive director. Such acts or omissions may include: neglect, physical abuse, mental abuse, emotional abuse, violation of civil rights, or exploitation of children or vulnerable adults. (5-1-10) 02. Immediate Revocation, Suspension and Transfer of Clients without Notice. The Department will, without prior notice, revoke or suspend a certificate of approval of any facility, program, or service and immediately transfer clients, when persuaded by a preponderance of the evidence that such conditions exist as to endanger the health or safety of any client, employee, contractor, or volunteer. (5-1-10) 03. Revocation, Suspension, or Terminate/Limit on Admissions with Written Notice. The Department will suspend, or revoke a certificate of approval, or terminate or limit admissions, by giving fifteen (15) days' written notice prior to the effective date, to any alcohol and substance use disorders treatment and recovery support services program or facility when persuaded by a preponderance of the evidence that: (5-1-10) a. One (1) or more of a program facilities are not in compliance with applicable provisions of the Idaho Code, or these rules and minimum standards. (5-1-10) b. The owner, applicant, or the person proposed as the Executive Director as defined in Section 011 of these rules: (5-1-10) i. Without good cause, fails to furnish any data, statistics, records or information requested by the Department, or files fraudulent returns thereof; (5-1-10) ii. Has been found guilty of fraud, deceit, misrepresentation or dishonesty associated with the operation of a program, regardless of the population the program serves or the services the agency provides; (5-1-10) iii. Has been found guilty of the commission of any felony; (5-1-10) iv. Has failed to exercise fiscal accountability toward a client or the Department regarding payment for services, regardless of the population the program serves or the services the agency provides; (5-1-10) v. Has knowingly permitted, aided, or abetted the commission of any illegal act on the premises of an alcohol and substance use disorders treatment or recovery support services program; (5-1-10) vi. Has been found guilty of federal or state tax violations; or (5-1-10) vii. Has willfully misrepresented or omitted information on the application or other documents pertinent to obtaining a program approval. (5-1-10) c. The program changed location from the building identified in the application. Any change in location from the building requires the program to notify the Department and submit required documentation, ninety ARCHIVE 2012 ARCHIVE IDAHO ADMINISTRATIVE CODE IDAPA 16.07.20 Department of Health and Welfare ASUD Treatment & RSS Facilities & Programs Section 151 Page 25 (90) days prior to the move, so the Department can inspect the new facility. Failure to do so renders the certificate of approval null and void, and the Department will suspend it, pending submission of a new application and approval of the new facility. (5-1-10) d. Any act adversely affecting the welfare of clients is being permitted, aided, performed, or abetted such as: neglect, physical abuse, mental abuse, emotional abuse, violation of civil rights, criminal activity, or exploitation. (5-1-10) e. The program demonstrated or exhibited a lack of sound judgment that is essential to the operation and management of an alcohol and substance use disorders treatment or recovery support services program. (5-1-10) f. The program is not in compliance with any of the conditions of a provisional certificate of approval. (5-1-10) g. The program lacks personnel, as required by these rules or as directed by the Department, to properly treat or serve the number of clients in the program. (5-1-10) h. A program, facility, or service has not complied with a facility or program requirement within thirty (30) days from the date the Department accepted their plan of correction. (5-1-10) i. A program, facility, or service has made little or no progress in correcting deficiencies within thirty (30) days from the date the Department accepted their plan of correction. (5-1-10) j. The Department makes a determination of repeated noncompliance with respect to a program, facility, or service. (5-1-10) 04. Return of the Certificate of Approval. The certificate of approval issued to a facility, program, or service is the property of the state of Idaho and must be immediately returned to the Department under the following circumstances: (5-1-10) a. Upon the suspension or revocation of the certificate of approval; (5-1-10) b. If the facility, program, or service is discontinued by the voluntary action of the facility, program, or service; or (5-1-10) c. Upon expiration of the certificate of approval. (5-1-10) 05. Multiple Certificates of Approval. When a facility, program, or service holds multiple certificates of approval: (5-1-10) a. The facility, program, or service having the certificate of approval denied, suspended or revoked must be clearly specified. (5-1-10) b. If a facility, program, or service holds multiple certificates of approval, the denial, suspension or revocation of a certificate of approval will not affect the standing of any of the program\'s other certificates of approval that have not been denied, revoked, or suspended. (5-1-10) 151. SIX-MONTH PROVISIONAL APPROVAL. 01. Issuance of Six-Month Provisional Certificate of Approval for New Programs. Each applicant for initial approval that does not have deficiencies that would impair the health, safety, and welfare of any client, employee, contractor, or volunteer and that receives a score of sixty-five percent (65%) to seventy-five percent (75%) in every category, and an overall weighted score of sixty-five percent (65%) to seventy-five percent (75%) will be issued a six-month provisional certificate of approval. (5-1-10) 02. Issuance of Six-Month Provisional Certificate of Approval for Deficiencies. The Department may revoke a certificate of approval and issue a provisional certificate of approval for a period not to exceed six (6) ARCHIVE 2012 ARCHIVE IDAHO ADMINISTRATIVE CODE IDAPA 16.07.20 Department of Health and Welfare ASUD Treatment & RSS Facilities & Programs Section 152 Page 26 months to the entire program or to one (1) of its facilities at any time if the program had been approved at its last application, but has subsequently been found by the Department to be deficient in relation to the requirements of these rules and minimum standards. (5-1-10) 03. Provisional Certificate of Approval Written Plan of Compliance. Within thirty (30) days of the issue date of the provisional certificate of approval, the program must prepare and submit a written plan of correction acceptable to the Department which sets forth the program\'s plan for achieving compliance with all requirements of these rules by the expiration of the provisional certificate. (5-1-10) 04. One Provisional Certificate of Approval Per Twelve Twenty-Four Month Period. Only one (1) provisional certificate of approval per facility will be issued to a program within a twenty-four (24) month period. (5-1-10) a. The facility being issued the provisional certificate of approval must be clearly specified. (5-1-10) b. If a facility, program, or service holds multiple certificates of approval, the issuance of a provisional certificate of approval for a facility, will not affect the standing of any of the program\'s other certificates of approval that have not been issued provisionally. (5-1-10) 05. Expiration of Provisional Certificate of Approval. If a facility, program, or service fails to achieve compliance within the six (6) month provisional period, the provisional certificate of approval will automatically expire at the end of the six (6) month provisional perio
