---
uid: 01KAGVSXPTD2NKGFD7BBRD1586
project: you-da-hoe
source_file: 050509 Draft.docx
converted_date: '2025-11-24T17:18:25.208205'
wordcount: 6872
version: 1
---

042509 first Draft

James had the bad luck to run into Rachel in the girl's bathroom at Northern Idaho Community College. He was coming out of the disabled person's stall after waiting a minute or two for the coast to clear. Leia had already strolled out -- after reapplying her lipstick (blow jobs are rough on lipstick; James had pink stains on his underwear to prove it) -- while James took his time doing some back stretches. Standing sex put a strain on his back. It wasn't that Leia was heavy, the opposite, in fact. Leia was more like an oversexed doll than a normal-sized 18- year-old like Rachel, a girl he hardly knew from the program who was leaning against the sink with an expression of concern in her eyes.

"Why do you let her abuse you that way?" Rachel said.

"Abuse me? We have sex."

"Leia doesn't give a shit about you. Aren't you worth more than a blow job? "

I'm worth less than a blow job, James thought.

All three of them \-- James, Rachel, and Leia\-- plus 22 other "troubled young adults" were in the same residential treatment program in Couer D'Alene, Idaho. They were away from what was typically a 16-hour lockdown at Intensive, the Def-CON level of treatment for would be suicides, substance abusers alcoholics (James was one of them), self injurers, obsessive-compulsives, borderline personality disorders, anger management failures. Any screw up, if you were 18 to 24, got you a place at Inner Horizons, as long as the screw-up didn't involve being born poor.

"Do you mind?" Rachel waved toward a stall. \"I\'m here for a reason.\"

Well, me too, James wanted to say. But the door swung open and shit-on-a-stick, James's Intro to Humanities teacher, Mrs. Lengel, walked in.

Professor Lengel looked enquiringly at him. James flashed her his trademark crumpled smile, like maybe she'd think he got mixed up between the Men\'s and the Women\'s and beat it the hell out of there.

He didn't think Rachel would rat him out back at Inner Horizons, but you never knew. People made up stories about each other in Process Group all the time to relieve the boredom. All he knew about Rachel was that she was a cutter. She seemed a lot more interested in hurting herself than someone as lame as James. He could always hope.

\* \* \* \*

The professor looked like she wanted to call 9-1-1. "Do you know him?"

"We're both at Inner Horizons," Rachel said.

Lengel, unlike every townie she'd ever met, didn't look away or raise her fingers at her in a vampire's cross when Rachel mentioned Inner Horizons.' Surprise wrote itself on the teacher's long, faintly lined face. "He's the smartest kid in my Intro to Humanities class. What's he doing *there?*"

Trying to survive, like the rest of us, Rachel thought.

"You'd think with those brains he'd be able to tell the difference between the Men's and the Women's." The professor was smiling at her. It was weird how Rachel seemed to have lost the ability to recognize a joke when it was offered. Still, the little attempt at humor felt like being remembered on your birthday with something you actually wanted.

Then it occurred to her that her American Literature prof thought James was meeting *her*. "He's not my boyfriend. I came in and he was already here. "

It was weird how Rachel seemed to have lost the ability to recognize a joke when it was offered. Still, the little attempt at humor felt like being remembered on your birthday with something you actually wanted.

Then it occurred to her that to teacher thought James was meeting *her*. "He's not my boyfriend," she protested. "I came in and he was already here. "

The professor gazed steadily at Rachel and nodded, as if to say 'that explains something I've been wondering.'What she could have been wondering about Rachel, Rachel hadn't a clue. She was taking Lengel\'s American Literature survey class and turned her papers in on time, got mostly A's -- a few B's \-- on her essay tests. Well, except for her latest paper on *Huck Finn*. Rachel was still reeling from the big fat C- minus. Lengel had written, in red accusatory ink, "Come see me!" next to the crappy grade. Before running into her in the bathroom, Rachel had planned to stop by her office after class. God forbid, Lengel would talk about her paper on Huck and Jim\'s homoerotic relationship while some older woman was making disgusting noises in one of the stalls?

"He said he surfed in Malibu," Lengel said.

Rachel shrugged. \"I guess. I don\'t really know him.\"

"Maybe he heard the surf was up in Lake Coeur D'Alene."

The fact that Lengel was joking took Rachel a minute to process. The idea that a professor could be a human being hadn\'t occurred to her. Professors were somewhere between gods and alien beings to Rachel, like Martians, but better read. In fact, it struck her as more intimate than she wanted to admit, that Lengel was in the women's restroom to pee.

As if Rachel's thought prompted Lengel, the professor turned to go into a stall. "Tell James to stop by my office." Then Rachel heard her muffled voice through the barrier. "And don\'t forget to make your appointment. Your Huck Fin paper is a mess.\"

Great, Rachel thought. Now we're both in trouble.

\* \* \* \*

After the car crash, James' parents --Dr. Ida and Joe --had done their research and shipped him off to the best wilderness camp in America, (according to Cliff Summit's website, not that James cared that it was highly rated by parents and psychiatric personnel both). It sucked big time. He had to hike twelve or fifteen miles a day carrying a 60-pound pack while detoxing from alcohol and weed and every other mood enhancer he'd used to anaesthetize his loser self since he'd turned 15.

The first ten days, James thought he was going to die, climbing up mountain trails sweating gin and tequila till he was soaked to his underwear. He remembered waking up one morning in a frigid sleeping bag that smelled like the morning after a keg party His tent mate, Teddy, claimed he got high off James's fumes. That first week all James could think about was wanting to throw up and let loose of his bowels with every step.

And then, day by day, the fumes blew away with the biting wind and the clouds in his head disappeared and one morning he found himself at the end of a long high desert slog in a rust and purple amphitheater of petrified Utah sandstone. He'd never seen anything so strange, almost like a Martian landscape, with the smell of pinyon resin strong enough to rip his sinuses out of his nose.

He wondered whether the awful beauty of his desert surroundings struck him like a punch to the temple because of his near death experience with detox; or was it the unbelievable relief he felt that the dry heaves and bleeding blisters and noxious sweat that actually stung his eyes like his own bodily fluids had turned against him was over?

Whatever it was, ever after, he thought of his enforced time in the high desert wilderness of southern Utah like a religious experience. In his privileged and misspent life, he had never experienced the feeling of sustained serenity that constant physical exhaustion, exposure to cold, thirst, and extreme hunger provided. Eight other troubled souls marched --well, slogged, scrambled, stumbled, crawled and crab-walked (James thought of Sammy, a fat kid, who got seam burns on his inner thighs). Everybody except the counselors whined, complained, seethed, moaned, pissed and swore their way through the trails\-- while James felt like he flew through the rugged territory like the peregrine falcons that soared overhead.

Now that he was at Inner Horizons, he wished he was back in Utah. The program gave him a cheesy certificate after three months and said he was ready for \"the next step on your therapeutic journey\": program speak for \"now that you\'re comfortable here, we\'re shipping you off to a different gulag. Welcome to Idaho. Where you can bang your head against a library table for hours trying to avoid thinking about why you\'re here.

James, hunkered down at a library table away from everybody so he could work, reworked the fourth, no, the fifth draft of his Impact Letter. He kept rewriting it and Josh, his therapist kept rejecting it because his "accountability" content was way too general. *Make it real* Josh kept saying, which James interpreted as *make it bleed*. Frankly, James had bled plenty over his god-damned Impact Letter. What the hell did the name "Impact Letter" even mean? Hit yourself on the head with a hammer. Smash into a eucalyptus tree, like the one James had crashed into with the girl. James had walked away from the impact; he pushed away the image of the bleeding lump he\'d abandoned in the passenger seat. Maybe the girl he\'d shared a joint with had walked away from the ravine in Malibu into a happy life. Miracles happen, he told himself. Just not to me.

\* \* \* \*

White page. White snow shrouded tree. White lawn, lumpy with three feet of snow. Even the Idaho people were shaking their heads at the record-breaking snow. A raven scraped across the sky outside the window in the library carrel. Its dark shadow looked like jerky line of handwriting across an empty page.

What he was supposed to do in his Impact Letter was own up to his behaviors."Take accountability" for all the shit he'd done to his parents. There were two big problems with the assignment due in two hours for his family therapy call. Problem One. James couldn't remember half the shit he'd done in his alcohol and weed and downer-laden fog. Wildly overshadowed by Problem Two: he didn't want to remember ever an iota of what he'd done.

At night, around two or three, odd flashes of memories continually woke him: a cracked wind shield. The girl with the red hair band toking a joint. A curving canyon road lined by two black chasms. He cracked a breath mint and the taste brought back the eucalyptus smell that filled the Corvette in his first waking moments after the crash.

Why would anybody want to take accountability for walking away from the sound of labored breathing? Who would have thought there could be so much blood in him or her? James had a crappy paperback copy of MacBeth in his backpack, cadged from Healing House's library. In his first months of incarcerated boredom before he'd "earned" the right to take a few classes, he'd whipped through all the thrillers and spy novels, even the romances (not that he'd admit to enjoying them). Now he was down to the stuff nobody else would read and even more surprisingly, had discovered he'd been eating cotton candy when great bloody raw steak was available.

He printed laboriously. "I got in a car crash while stoned." Did it sound better to write *I got stoned and the car got away from me*? A memory of leaning over to toke a joint that the girl -- he didn't even know her name \--held out to him. *A girl in a red hair band asked me to give her a ride up Topanga Canyon*. *I thought I was being a good citizen saving the girl in the red hair band from taking the bus.*

James brushed the memory of the crash away like the glass shards that had littered his lap.

"I stole some money." It wasn't like taking twenty or thirty bucks from the cash drawer his mom left for the house cleaners was a giant deal. Fungible. A new word he learned in Intro to Humanities with Dr. Lengel. Mom, an infectious disease researcher, replenished the drawer like clockwork every few weeks. What was a fungible fin or three between family?

He checked the clock on the library wall. An hour already lost. Mrs. Lengel pointed out a list sentence in Huck Fin about rafting on the Mississippi that lazed on for 174 words. *When you're stuck you can always write a list.* Her advice*.*

Lying

Drinking

Getting stoned

Skipping class

Writing prescriptions from Dr. Ida's prescription pad.

Taking household items.

Had Dad missed the Patek Phillippe watch yet? James circled back and scratched out the prescription pad admission. Maybe Mom, who was brilliant about stuff like sleeping sickness and river blindness but clueless about simple James, hadn't caught on yet. He still had a blank pad or two hidden away, just in case. What else? Just cover the big stuff Josh had said. Where did walking away from a bleeding lump in the passenger seat fall? Was there some category beyond the big stuff for the truly heinous?

Driving while intoxicated.

The last item on the list of big stuff. He shut the notebook, releasing the heinous into the sky with the raven. Nevermore.

\* \* \* \*

A cut guy in a muscle shirt showing all his ripples mixed Mountain Dew and root-beer and Coke together at the self-serve stand in the cafeteria, so Leia could admire all that gym time from the back. Unfortunately, when the dweeb turned around, he had a farmer's beard that made his face look like a shovel. Probably one of those Mormon boys who'd been kicked out of his polygamist family so he couldn't compete with the old men for their 15 year old wives. In Leia's Intro to sociology class(which she was skipping right now) they'd had a discussion about Utah's homeless problem -- the population of young men thrown out of their homes was unbelievably high in Salt Lake City and the question was whether Idaho, with its big Mormon population, had the same problem. Mr. Shovel Face parked his drink at a table in front of her and Leia hoped he wouldn't face her so she could fantasize about having sex with his faceless body. She had her standards -- beards and facial hair, especially long sideburns and Hitler mustaches were immediate deal-killers. David had both. Even the whisper of memory of his scratchy feel made Leia\'s stomach shudder.

She'd eaten eleven donuts on her way to Soc class (they were supposed to be for class until she suddenly decided to skip it so she\'d have plenty of time to vomit them up). In the Inner Horizon van, on their way into town, she\'d talked Phil, the new driver, into stopping at Dunkin\' Donuts for her. He was old --forty, fifty? -- and all Leia had to do was shine her big eyes his direction. How tough was it to brush against his arm? Or put her hand on his shoulder when she sat in the seat right behind him? The guy was newly divorced, an open wound oozing in every direction: why not trade some Leia candy in return for a little favor like a box of maple bars and crullers?

Mr. Shovel Face took his drink over to the phone booth -- he was truly cut, big guns for lats, sick pythons for biceps. It cost 50 cents to place a local call and Leia had exactly 24 cents to her name. In the program money was the other controlled substance. It was easier to get Prozac or Klonapine than a measly five bucks. Maybe when Shovel Head gave up the dinosaur phone -- she wasn't sure she even remembered how to use one --Leia could talk a couple quarters out of him to call somebody in Soc class to borrow their notes.

Not having her I-phone, a G2 just like her mother's, was a goddamned tragedy. Life was bearable (barely) with its third ear attached to Leia's larynx. When the Inner Horizons staff packed it away, (along with her new Apple Air laptop and her Bose mini-speakers and her BlueTooth headset) it felt like someone had ripped her ears from her head. Her therapist, Dr. Ian, said that unplugging was good for her -- it removed the crutch of superficial connections. "Pseudo connections", the term he used. But what if pseudo connections were all she could handle? Howzit going, 'sup? LOL, OMG, seemed like plenty to navigate, especially in comparison to the minefield of conversation at home.

Mr. Shovel Head was gesturing vehemently in the phone booth like he was talking to somebody on the other end of the line who didn't get it. She and Mom texted as their main form of communication. If he would text instead of talk, he would have been able to control the conversation and steer it out of troubled waters, like she and her mom steered past each other. Ships in the night. Her mom loved to tell anyone who would listen that texting was infinitely easier than talking to a nutcase teenager.

Really, though, Mom was the nutcase; she acted younger, even more out of control than Leia. The last time Leia had seen her \-- the day Gran and Papa put her in the program, Mom drove up to the house in Grosse Point in her new red Corvette with a 22 year old at the wheel. Leia recognized the driver, Jason Horvath, who was 3 years ahead of her in high school. How embarrassing was that? Mom, the Cougar, in tight Lulu Lemon pants, a lacey black bra hanging out of her camisole, glued to Jason's arm like she needed him to stand up. For being 44, Mom looked hot (all the beauty money and a good cosmetic surgeon could buy, she liked to say). Plus she lived on rice cakes and nonfat-yogurt which meant she was always starved enough to take down a deer. The last thing she had said to Leia (thank God Jason Horvath had been sent off to pick up her masseuse, so he didn\'t hear her) was, \"I hope you grow up in Idaho. Let\'s hope you\'re at least twelve the next time I see you.\" If Mom was only thirteen, how the hell would she know when Leia surpassed her?

Time to eject the donuts before they had a chance to turn into cellulite. She could feel them pressing against her waistband like they\'d morphed into one fat dough ball. Shovel Face smiled at her on the way past. As if. She was already tasting hot acid at the back of her throat. Still. Leia could feel farm boy\'s eyes following her, so she made a conscious effort to hip-sling her way down the toilet. But her mind was already moving toward the Zen of ejection and purification. Her gag reflex was so well trained, she didn\'t have to struggle to bring food up anymore; not like her early efforts when she had to drink Ipecac until she learned the trick of touching her tonsils. Stick your fingers deep enough in your throat and the stuff practically rocketed out of you.

Between barfing and banging, she spent a shitload load of time in the restroom, Leia thought, as she swished another mouthful of Listerine at the sink.

\* \* \* \*

"Are you, like, the only black person in Idaho?" James asked his therapist. Josh to James, Dr. Joshua Isaiah Samuelson, Ph.D, to the world, raised one eyebrow. "There's my wife."

James wanted to waste time until his parents called in on the conference line. "One time I saw you downtown and people turned around to look at you so fast you could hear the wind whip through their ears."

"Feeling anxious, are you?"

"I'll be on the hot seat soon enough. Seriously, don't you feel weird being the only one?"

Josh shrugged. "Anybody different always stands out."

James, blond, blue-eyed, basket ball fit, would have fit right in with the Aryan Nation headquartered nearby on Priest Lake; still, he wouldn't have been surprised to discover a secret Inner Horizons pheromone that telegraphed "misfit!" to anyone who came within a hundred yards. Was that how the Mormon polygamist wives felt? Yesterday, he had seen two young girls, at the most 15 or 16, shopping at Rexall Drug in long pioneer dresses. Both girls had strange Elvis-type pompadours over their foreheads that cascaded into intricate rolls of hair down their backs. James couldn't figure out the physics of the braids woven into the rolls. If he'd had a sister who was into hair dressing, instead of calculus, he would have asked her how they did it. \"Any advice on how to get through this?"

"Be real."

James was unconvinced of the value of reality; he'd been successfully at avoiding it for years. Duh-DUT. Duh-DUT. Somebody with a sick sense of humor had reprogrammed the conference phone to play the theme song from "Jaws." Last week it played "Somewhere Over the Rainbow."

"Hi, sweetheart!" Dr Ida, faky cheery today unlike last week's ice queen. Dad growled, "Hey Bud." His old pet name for James. When was the last time he'd used it?

"Hey." It was only one little word but it came out of James half strangled, as if his vocal cords had already seized up.

Josh laid down the ground rules. James had spent the last few weeks working on *his* Impact letter, a response to the Impact letter Dr. and Mr. Olson had written detailing the events that led up to sending James to Inner Horizons. That's when James had learned the hard way the *real* reason they called it an Impact Letter: the heinous stuff his parents said he'd done hit him like a rain of stones. Now that the lacerations had finally scabbed over, James was supposed to open them back up by "taking ownership of his behaviors." Inner Horizons. Where they flayed your skin off an inch at a time.

Josh nodded at him: Put neck (A) into guillotine (B).

"Mom and Dad, there's been a lot of lying." His words came out low and mumbled, but at least they were out there. He'd lied to them both so many times he couldn't remember telling them the truth.

"Sometimes I stole stuff to get money for drugs." Throat clearing from Dad. Was he thinking about the time James crawled into their bedroom on his stomachso he could empty the wallet Dad kepton the dresser? "Occasionally, I also brought drugs into the house." Translation: every day, every hour, every minute he could get his hands on anything psychotropic.

"Excuse me, honey. When you say you stole from us, are you talking about taking Grandpa's coin collection?" Dr. Ida interrupted James' concentration.

"Or the house money?\" Dad asked.

Hey, if they could put Tylenol on the grocery list, why not uppers? Downers? James thought.

Dad said, "I wonder if you could talk specifics. Saying you stole from us is kind of general."

Stay above the surface, he told himself. The only way to get through the quagmire was to hop from one bobbing hummock to another; if he stepped in the quicksand of explanation, he'd sink over his head in slime. Tonelessly, he answered, "Both."

"Your mother thinks you've been writing prescriptions and signing her name. " Dad pressed on.

Poke me with a sharp stick and I poke back: The ancient path of their fights, deep as a wagon rut, opened before James like a well-known thoroughfare. "Cut me some slack here! Can't you give me some credit? I'm trying?"

Josh interjected in a calm voice. "I didn't hear your dad accusing you," he said, to James. "He was just asking you to clarify."

Clarify that I'm a disappointment. Clarify that I'm a liar and a thief and a fuck-up was what James heard. He looked down at the list of behaviors he had painstakingly written and rewritten. He was maybe three admissions into a list that ran single spaced down both sides of his paper. He plowed doggedly on. "There was lot of school skipping."

Dr. Ida's turn. \"Are you going to answer Dad about forging prescriptions? Do you know I can get fired for that?\"

All of Josh's coaching sloughed off like a layer of soggy tissue. James didn't dare open his mouth, because if he did, his voice would crack and there'd be no holding back the howl that wanted to be heard. Before Josh could stop him, James reached over and punched the off switch to the phone. A dial tone droned over the speakers. An EKG machine no longer able to register a pulse.

"What's the use?" asked James.

"I'm not the one who feels like the only black person in Idaho," Josh said. "It's you."

\* \* \* \*

Bad luck. Leia sat down next to Rachel at the dinner table. The girl was always trying to glom onto Rachel. She didn't have any other friends that Rachel could detect except James, of course, and it wasn't clear friendship had anything to do with what they had going.

The cook and her helper had already served out the plates and then James plopped into the only open seat at the table -- directly across from her. Great. The unholy trinity.

"Where've you been?" Leia wanted to know.

"The treadmill."

James' hair was wet and even across the table, Rachel could smell his shampoo. A fresh clean smell. It made the weird patty of mystery meatloaf smothered in neon orange "barbecue" sauce even more disgusting than usual.

Dinner was always a trial. The anorexics shoved the food around on their plates in circles and inevitably, they had to be\" supervised\" which meant Patsy, the passive-aggressive cook, stood over them while they choked down minuscule bite after bite, whining with every swallow that they were already stuffed. The boys, especially the ones who\'d been at wilderness camp, complained bitterly about getting so much rabbit food and being limited to one piece of meat and only one roll when they were used to eating as much as they wanted after marching twenty miles a day at wilderness cap. Rachel, who hadn't been to wilderness camp and didn\'t have food issues (unless you counted her preference for eating food that tasted edible) ate the green beans (fair) and the spinach salad (fourth time that week) plus a few bites of the unidentifiable meatloaf, after scraping off the nuclear sauce. She noticed James eyeing her leftovers, so when Patsy was busy coaxing Leia to eat her rice grain by grain, she passed over her plate.

\"Hey! Rachel is sharing food!\" Leia cast dagger eyes at Rachel, like she\'d just caught her making out with James.

James slipped the entire meat patty into his mouth stretching his cheeks out like a chipmunk. \"Uhhhh-uhhh, \"he protested, giving Leia back dagger for dagger with blue ice eyes.

Patsy gave Rachel a one for food sharing. Goddamn Leia, the little bitch. For the moment, Rachel kept her mouth shut, but thought darkly about dipping Leia\'s tooth brush in the toilet during the bedtime rush.

James caught up to her in the living room, right before movie time, to tell her he was sorry for getting her in trouble. "Twice in one day, that must be a record, even for you," she said.

"What?" James expression was clueless.

"Don't you remember -- in the bathroom with Lengel?"

"Oh! I didn't think --"

She interrupted him, suddenly furious. "Didn't think! That's your excuse. Don't think around me anymore!"

She purposely sat well any from him on the couch, well away from *both* James and Leia, she thought, although she didn't see Leia in the living room where they were gathered to watch "Alien" on the TV. Rachel had had enough drama for the day. When somebody dimmed down the lights, even though she\'d already seen "Alien" about ten times, she was thankful to be alone in the flickering dark.

\* \* \* \*

The smell of burned popcorn annoyed her. Couldn't those idiots even deal with microwave? They used to have fruity spray fresheners in all the bathrooms until the staff realized that the huffers in the house were enjoying their own private Idahos. So no fruity spray to cut the acrid smell. It was so strong, Rachel felt scratchy in the eyes, like the popcorn hadn't been cooked but incinerated. She finally got up to turn the fan in the kitchen on, even though people would whine about the noise. Listening to an engine the size of a Boeing 747 would be preferable to eating smoke.

She picked her way over the munchers on the couch and went through the dining area. The hall where all the girls slept was uncharacteristically dim. If there was one truism of life at Inner Horizons, it was an unflappable belief in shining a light in the darkness. Every house light burned till 10 pm and it was only with "special permission" that they'd been allowed to dim the living room for the movie. A weird vaporous haze drifted like a yellow fog into the brazenly lit kitchen. All the rooms down the hall were open, per the rules, except for the last one on the left. Her room. Rachel could see a thin orange matchstick of light glowing under the door.

Fire? All the TV watchers were glued to the screen, mesmerized by a crew member with his hand reaching for a door handle, where the alien lurked. Fire! Rachel really put her lungs into it.

Where? Fire! In the hall! Holy shit! Alan and Trisha, the mentors, flared into full alert and hurtled towards her. Alan sprinted down the passageway but Rachel guessed he'd been smart enough not to open the closed door. "Call 9-1-1!" They could hear him screaming while Trisha herded everybody toward the entry way. They fought with each other for coats and boots, anything they could get their hands onto keep warm in the frigid night.

Luckily Rachel hadn't taken her shoes off but somebody had glommed onto her coat before she could get to it, so she took the first coat she felt in the thickening haze. Opening the door seemed to draw the smoke towards them like a funnel and most of them were choking and gagging by the time they met up near the mail box where Trisha shooed them like a mother hen. From the parking area, away from the house, they could see orange leaping light like people dancing in the bedroom window.

Every stitch of clothing Rachel owned, all her books, her journal, a patch of see through baby blanket that was the oldest possession she owned -- the one thread of connection she still had to her mother \--went with it. She had a vision of herself on mom's warm hip, leaning against her body and rubbing the silky edge on her nose. Some of the kids near her wore blankets like Indian robes. Blankie had been a tent, a turban, a cape, a crying cloth to hold the sum of her childhood hurts and pains. The displaced Nez Perce. She'd heard that Chief Joseph led his freezing tribe on a run for Canada not far from where they were huddled. Could sorrow and travail be embedded in the stones under their feet? She was surprised when unfamiliar arms came up behind her and wrapped her in a wool Pendleton blanket she recognized from the living room couch.

James nodded in the direction of the leaping flames. "That's your room, isn't it?" The ground under foot seemed unsteady. James tightened the blanket hold and said, 'It's ok. Everybody's out."

Rachel wasn't thinking about anybody's safety. Deanna, her roommate, stood in the middle of a cluster of kids; she was being patted and cajoled by Alan to keep her blubbering to a dull roar. Leia, in cat's eye glasses, watched Rachel from the outside of the cluster. She looked preppy, very put together, in a puffy pink Patagonia jacket, a matching orange and pink mohair hat rakishly tilted over one eye like an shown peony. She'd managed to find her snow boots and her wool socks were carefully rolled down over the boot tops. Paul, the big kid who never spoke, shivered beside Leia in basketball shorts and flip flops.

Sirens wailed closer and then the lights of a police cruiser colored James red, then blue. He tightened his blanket hold around Rachel. "You're safe here with me." And the weird thing was, after all the weird things that had happened that day, Rachel wanted to believe him.

\* \* \* \*

What a day. If Margaret had her way, she\'d bring back corporal punishment and start with the brat who clogged the toilet in the boy's wing with a hand towel. Who would try to flush a *towel* down the toilet? Margaret didn't even want to think about what was on the towel. The shit these kids thought up.

If they spent half their time devoting their smarts to fixing their issues instead of acting out, they\'d all be healed. But then, of course, Margaret wouldn\'t have her shitty low-paying job as Day Supervisor at Inner Horizons. Was this the most dysfunctional, worst run psychiatric treatment facility in the country? That\'s what she\'d overheard one of the therapists telling some colleague on the private office phone while Margaret filled out fire insurance claim forms. It sounded like Ian, the therapist, was angling for a job with whoever he was talking to.

Through the relight in the office door Margaret could half hear the girl's process group going on in the living room. It sounded like an angry swarm of bees. Deanna had lost all her clothes in the fire and Margaret had stopped by Target on her any to work buy her size 2X replacements. Nobody had anything big enough to lend her \--not even Margaret who was wearing size 18 pants that pinched her in the belly. Too many donuts, she told herself, while writing for the 47th time under cause of incident, \"unknown\". Deanna sagged like a clump of misery in the center of the couch, with Leia to one side of her and Danny on the other. Between a rock and a hard place. Danny and Leia were involved in some kind of devilment against Deanna, Margaret could tell. That Danny was the meanest girl Margaret had ever met. Deanna had hit a milestone in yesterday\'s weigh-in: 285 pounds. Quite an achievement since entering the program at 345. Wouldn\'t you think those skinny girls would pat Deanna on the back for all her hard work? Hell, no, Margaret had overheard Danny ask Deanna now she could stand tosee herself in the mirror (Margaret wrote her up immediately) and she knew they called her cellulites, She just hadn\'t been ask to catch them doing it. Between the two of them, they had poor Deanna afraid to pass them in the hallway. It was like the poor girl\'s fat cells drove them crazy.

If Margaret had her say, which she didn't (who listened to the voice of common sense in a gaggle of Ph. Ds?) she'd\--. Oh Christ.

Margaret was on her feet, pen tossed to the winds, and in the middle of the cat fight before she finished her thought. Danny was yanking at Deanna\'s hair and Deanna\--amazing! she has a temper! - clawed at Darny\'s face with (unfortunately) fingernails that were chewed to the quick. Still, Deanna had managed to bloody Danny\'s nose\--she must have gotten off the first punch\--but now Danny was popping her viciously on the ear with a closed fist. Margaret registered the street fighter\'s move, while she hauled Danny backwards still kicking and flailing. Darlene, the therapist on duty, actually sat down on Deanna. Margaret wasn\'t quite quick enough to to stop Danny\'s foot from connecting with Deanna\'s pillowy belly. Cheap shot! The little vixen. Margaret shook the skinny Danny like a rag doll. \"Stop it! Get control of yourself!\" she cried, over the sound of Deanna\'s high pitched wail.

Margaret didn\'t have time to ask what started the fight because Reza, the one with anxiety issues, started throwing up on the carpet. Margaret had just had it cleaned last week and now he was spraying chunks of barely digested eggs and oatmeal onto the back of the couch and the floor.

By the time they got everybody off to their various therapists for emergency sessions (she made the little shit Leia scrub the couch with Anti-Icky-Poo. \"Isn\'t this the stuff you use on dog poop?\" Leia asked. \"It\'s all the same,\" Margaret answered) it was time for Margaret to make her weekly Status Calls to twenty parents about each kid\'s \"progress in daily living.\" Margaret wished fervently she could tell someone how she herself was progressing in daily living. Was that job at the Tasty Freeze still open? It paid a dollar an hour less than Day Supervisor at Healing House (Heller House is what Margaret called it when she talked to Hank, her truck driver husband, in the middle of the night.) He had hurt his back lifting something stupid so the really needed her income. Joss --ones that paid a living wage didn't grow o

If she hurried, she could meet with Dr. Lengel and pick up another copy of *Huck Finn* at the bookstore before she had to meet the van. Somebody had stolen her *Huck*. A steady slippage of Ipods and deodorants and shampoo and pieces of clothing had been going MIA with the regularity of a metronome. Rachel had just lost her favorite sweater, a birthday present from her Gran. It was one of the few times the old woman had given her a present that she actually wanted. Gran, a minute seventy-year-old with the energy of a coiled spring, haunted garage sales (her idea of entertainment) and was always giving Rachel an endless series of antique teacups. All with a story of their maker and their age and how valuable they were. She knew because "she looked it up in the book," an ancient dog-eared Bible of antique china that she always carried with her in an enormous alligator purse.

*Miss Lucy had a baby.\
His name was Tiny Tim.\
She put him in the bathtub\
To see if he could swim.\
He drank up all the water.\
He ate up all the soap.\
He tried to eat the bathtub,\
But it wouldn\'t go down his throat.\
Miss Lucy called the doctor.\
Miss Lucy called the nurse.\
Miss Lucy called the lady\
With the alligator purse.*

Gran's bag was big enough to stick Tiny Tim and the bathtub in and carry him off. That's what had happened (at Gran's and Mom's direction) after Rachel gave birth. A nurse had laid the tiny red wrinkly boy on her chest after 28 hours of hard labor and she dozed off feeling his bird weight and when she opened her eyes, he was gone. Could you *lose* a baby? Apparently. Technically, he had been taken away from her "for her own good"---she was only 16 when she got pregnant \--but she always thought of the tiny boy as lost, as in "I've misplaced him" which gave her the feeling that if a miracle happened, he would be found again.

Originally they had agreed to let her keep him \--that's what she wanted. But Gran and Mom both ganged up on her in her last month of pregnancy. "You're too young." "You're not ready for the responsibility." "It'll ruin your life before it's even started." They were right about that. They took her out of St. Edwards High (the Catholics didn't want a burgeoning bad apple in their midst) and she lost all her friends and walked around like a father and father ghost at the alternative school for stoners and losers. Her brother pretended like he didn't know her, and all her aunts and uncles and nieces and nephews stopped talking to her as if pregnancy was some kind of plague. Then Gran and Mom told her they wouldn't lift a finger for her if she kept him. She'd be out on the street at sixteen, no job skills, no degree, unable to buy diapers or baby food. "You'll both starve."

There were worse things than starving, they found out. After having the baby, she went down a rabbit hole but unlike Alice, she never came around. All she did was tumble farther, faster and deeper into darkness. The only thing that brought her toward the light \--and that was only temporary -- was cutting.

*\"Mumps,\" said the doctor.\
\"Measles,\" said the nurse.\
\"Razor,\" said the lady\
With the alligator purse.*

Cutting was the only time she felt alive. So she brought back the birth pangs by slicing her armpits and the bottoms of her feet and the insides of her thighs with a salted razor. Until one day, two months ago, she couldn't stop and she opened the arteries of both wrists down to bone. Welcome to Healing House.

*Out went the doctor.\
Out went the nurse.\
Out went the lady\
With the alligator purse.*
