---
uid: 01KAGVYZS6QJESBAF3N892SKVS
project: you-da-hoe
source_file: 051109 2nd draft-1.docx
converted_date: '2025-11-24T12:25:46.944871'
wordcount: 12390
version: 1
---

051109 2nd Draft

**Process Group**

Nothing worth processing ever happened in Process Group. Not in Godforsaken Idaho, not in the middle of winter, not during a snowstorm that had started in October and was apparently going to drag on until May. Twelve of Inner Horizon\'s Young Adults (18-24) were arguing in Healing House's living room about whose turn it was to go first. Was it any wonder that within a day of being locked up in Coeur d' Alene, Idaho, everybody in the program called the place Udahoe. Get it? U- Da- Hoe, for doing whatever stupid fucked up shit that landed you in a residential psychiatric program with people even more fucked up than you.

Old Girl --she refused to answer to any other name -- had landed at Inner Journeys almost three years ago for failing to off herself the third time (the unofficial number was seven; she'd been trying to off herself since she was twelve but it took forever for her to get competent enough for people to figure out she was serious). Her arrival was so long ago that Old Girl barely recognized the loopy girl signature she made on her intake forms the night two Christ-spouting "escorts" in matching ski jackets signed her into the program. Now, at 18, she had graduated from Adolescents to Young Adults, where she couldn't see any difference in the level of maturity, unless she counted the improvement in psychobabble. Any moron could spout on about accountability and self-actualization and dialectical behavior modification after three hours of individual therapy every week and once-every-other--day peer groups, like the one underway.

Old Girl watched an icicle spear stuck to the eaves of Healing House get longer, while Darlene, the therapist on duty, introduced the new girl to Process Group. The Idaho equivalent of watching paint dry. The newbie --Rachel--- had been frogmarched into Healing House last night which meant that Mommy and Daddy had paid a bundle to avoid a plane ride with their flipped-out, drug-addled, possibly violent and definitely sobbing darling in order to get her out of their hair. On her arms, so everyone could see them, were fresh cut marks. Horizontal marks, not vertical. Garden variety self-injurer, like eighty percent of the girls sprawled on the irregular semi-circle of couches. *Get prepared, newbie, they already took away your hair straightener (so you can't burn yourself) and your perfume (so you can't drink it) and the only knife you'll see will be in the hands of a fat cook who ought to be stabbed with it for hate crimes against food.*

It was obvious the new girl d didn't get the deal yet about Idaho. Old Girl knew she was imagining lakes as blue as Steller's jays and endless mountains with diamond-sparkled peaks. She had the endless part right. Wait till she was trapped by four gray walls and emotional traumas fifty times a day. Old Girl sometimes had to cover her head with a pillow by 8 p.m., she was so exhausted by the anxieties pulsating around 25 troubled souls.

"Let's welcome Rachel to her new family!" Darlene was a chirper. Family was pretty close to the truth. Everybody sitting in the circle of couches and chairs in the oversized living room was just as fucked up and dysfunctional as a real family, except none of the participants would have forked out \$12, 000 a month for the pleasure of being together. Darlene's voice, to Old Girl's practiced ears, took her back to nap time, when Mom gave her a graham cracker and let her lie on her bedspread while she listened to stories with happy endings. Here, there were no graham crackers -- Inner Journeys didn't allow snacks in between meals because of the overload of anorexics and bulimics in the program -- and no stories that Old Girl with happy endings either. There was James Olson, the loser of the argument about who had to go first in 'taking ownership of his behaviors.': Inner Horizon speak for telling the new girl what fuck-up brought him here.

James looked younger than 19, a surfer-blond, not yet used to his gangly body (he was famous for tripping over his own feet). He ticked off his behaviors in a sing-songy voice. "Substance abuse, alcoholic, DUI, school suspension and...." James pinched the area between his eyebrows, like he had a headache. "Littering."

Yuk. Yuk. Old Girl had heard the joke before. A few of the people here less than a couple months cracked smiles.

Danny, a pale freckly red head with an infected nose ring, went next: "An-or-EX-i-A, Bu-LIM-i-a, self-in-JURE --y\..."

Newbie Rachel cast her eyes up to the ceiling like she was looking for an escape hatch. Old Girl felt for her: what were you supposed to do with the recitation from Princess Lydia, J.A.P. royalty from Westchester, New York? Sex addiction, inappropriate touching with a minor, prostitution, sexual harassment of a teacher, lewd conduct, shooting the moon at a police officer. And that was leaving out all the shit she'd gotten in trouble for here.

So it went around the chairs, across the couch. Cocaine addiction, glue huffing, predatory sex, shoplifting, peer violence, theft, assault and battery, sibling abuse, incest, road rage, gambling addiction, exposure, fire starting, property destruction: you named it, the Inner Journeys family had taken a crash course in life wreckage and gotten all As.

Rachel hunched over, shoulders drawn in as if to protect her heart. Her face was a rigid mask of Klonapin-affect, newly prescribed.

"Tell us about you," Darlene urged when the circle finally came back around. "What behaviors would you like to own up to?"

Rachel opened her mouth like a fish. Old Girl got the impression that there was not enough air in the room passing over her gills. She stood, and stepped a few feet into the circle. Her eyes rolled back in her head and she pitched backwards, knees buckling over the coffee table, straight into James Olson's lap.

\* \* \*

James wasn't there when the new girl was introduced. He'd been late to Process Group because his therapist, Josh, was late for individual therapy so they went ten minutes over. It wasn't like missing out on Process was a big deal. Three times a week under the microscope of your peers would make any normal person postal.

Normal. That was a joke. James was surrounded by the lame and halt at Inner Journeys, all the abnormal with parents who could pay the freight just like James' parents had paid: Dad, CEO of his own company, and Dr. Mom, a clinical researcher, both of whom were used to giving orders and being obeyed. Not skills James was the least bit interested in learning, which was what Josh had reminded him of today in his session. *When are you going to grow up?* Josh had asked. *You're the professional. You tell me.*

"What the shit?" he said to Ophelia, next to him on the couch, when the new girl stood up. James expected her to walk out, go to the can. Instead, her eyes rolled back in her head like the kewpie doll James had hung in the rearview mirror of his 16^th^ birthday Corvette. She went over like tree trunk pulled up by its roots, falling towards him, and when he caught her by the shoulders, he had the unusual perspective of looking at her upside down face into the whites of her eyes. *Exorcist time*. Her pupils were completely lost.

Darlene vaulted out of her chair. "Get a wooden spoon!" she yelled at Lydia. "Somebody get Bruce and call 911!"

By this time, the new girl was flopping like a break-dancer on the carpet and everybody in Process was sitting forward on the edge of their seats like they were watching Chain Saw II at the multiplex. James was torn between being thankful to the new girl for providing something new to talk about and feeling appalled at the sight of Bruce, the day manager, forcing a spoon between her teeth while Darlene grappled her by the ears.

James and Reza were instructed to hold onto her legs and James could feel something like a shock wave circling through her body, around and around is if he were holding onto a person being electrocuted. Her heels drummed a tattoo on the floor, even though James was holding his leg down with his full strength.

James knew about epilepsy. He knew about it on a rational level in his surprisingly well-read head. But this -- this laying on of hands on a person seized by electricity, as if a bolt of lighting struck out of the ether-- impressed him ten thousand times more than any Process group wisdom. After what seemed like an eternity of convulsions, the blond girl's eyes --light blue, almost opalescent-- popped open. James had the impression the new girl was looking up him and the other faces clustered around her and wondering whether she'd died and gone to hell. Consciousness -- of what she'd done, not necessarily who they were -- spread over her face in a slow motion wave of horror. *The monster is out of the closet---and it is me*, James thought he read.

"Are you feeling better?" Darlene was asking her. She was still holding the spoon she'd removed from her mouth and James saw shame pouring out of her pores while she pretended to memorize the carpet pattern. When she struggled up, James, still holding onto her leg, surprised himself by squeezing her hand. The fingers were long and thin, fragile as bird bones. She squeezed automatically back, then catching his eye, dropped James' hand as if she'd been burned.

Because Healing House was ten miles outside of town (all the houses had lame-oh names: Responsibility Row, Accountable Cabin!), Darlene and Bruce decided to load the new girl into the Suburban and take her to the hospital; it was faster than waiting for an ambulance. They put Micah, one of the Junior Counselors, in charge.

After that, Process Group was officially toast. Everybody basically sat around and replayed the moment when the new girl lost it. Maxi Eaton, the anorexic-bulimic who never thought of anything but food, said, "I thought she was going to barf up breakfast." Reza, the Iron Maiden fanatic from New Jersey, said, "I thought she had to go to the bathroom."

"Didn't they know she was epileptic?" Angela, the mean girl who'd been at the program the longest of any of them, was outraged. "Shouldn't they be more careful?"

Angela wouldn't deign to speak to James, a short timer of only six weeks (an eternity, in his mind). How was he supposed to know she called herself Old Girl when he mistakenly called her Angela? *Excuuuuuse me*. "Careful of what? Epilepsy isn't something you can plan for." James surprised himself by standing up to 0ld Girl. Usually he avoided her rather than give her the chance to rip him apart with her razor tongue. She was pretty scary with that head full of long, cinnamon colored dreads and an unnerving I-don't-give-a-fuck look that he was more familiar with at the bottom of a bottle of tequila.

A mammoth kid named Paul who never *ever* said anything, spoke up. "She looked like the Exorcist." You mean the kid inhabited by the devil, not the priest, James wanted to say. Everybody stared at Paul like they'd just heard a ghost.

"What the fuck are you looking at?" Paul demanded. "Her eyes rolled up in her *skull!"*

They all laughed then and Paul went back to humming his tuneless song. James wasn't sure but he suspected Paul was autistic. He\'d been too busy with his own shit to find out. He felt Lydia bump him from behind, the sign she wanted sex. As usual, her timing was impeccable.

**Peer Interaction**

Her itch was the size of Godzilla. Lydia had been hoping the newbie would be a boy --a hella-boy with a hella-itch itch to match. She had been seriously bummed when the long haired blond girl stumbled into breakfast that morning asking for coffee. The expression on her face when they said she could have herbal tea!

She put James under the microscope while he stuttered through his list of behaviors in Process Group: Darlene's dopy idea of a welcome ritual for the new girl. James seemed to be confessing his sins to the popcorn-coated ceiling. A flush crept out of his shirt collar and began climbing his cheeks like a thermometer. Jesus Christ, he couldn't be embarrassed about getting shit-faced, could he? Wasn't that the purpose of high school? James was definitely showing signs of wimping out on her. Lydia couldn't understand why everybody said that teenage boys were indiscriminately horny. In Lydia's experience, which was pretty wide, boys were hella-horny *at first*. But when they met up with the itch, its implacability (a word on her G.E. D. vocabulary list) they dropped off like leeches too full to suck blood.

At the new girl's turn to show her underwear, she stood up like a dumb ass. You could have knocked Lydia down when the new girl fell like a pile driver into James's lap. Why James? She started jerking like a girl strung out on Angel Dust that Lydia had seen near Times Square. *They should have given her the coffee,* flashed through Lydia's mind.

Lydia ran for the wooden spoon that Darlene screamed at her to get -- *what, are they going to beat her with it?* -and then, because she didn't know what else to do, sat down in Darlene's chair while the seizure went on and on. The girl looked positively Friday the Thirteenth, so scary Lydia couldn't watch, which was lucky because her eyes fell on Darlene's bag crammed into the chair seat with her. The wallet was clearly visible at the top. Everybody else was tuned into the horror show so she picked out a twenty dollar bill in one smooth motion and had it safe in her pocket before the twitching stopped.

Darlene and Bruce were busy bundling the blond up to go to the hospital. The coast was clear. Lydia nudged James from behind, then slipped into the bathroom first.

She immediately rejected her original idea of meeting James in the tub without any pants. Some brainiac had installed the old porcelain claw-foot tub on an exterior wall of Healing House. Maybe it was okay in summer but in the middle of January, you half-expected ice cubes to spill from the tap. Nobody in their right mind ever took a bath in here; Healing House didn't have enough hot water for twelve people, much less enough to heat up a tub the size of an iceberg. Lydia could hear her nutcase aunt back in her old house in Montreal telling her "get in and get out!" when she wanted Lydia to take a bath in the winter. Maybe that was why David, her cousin who was three years older, started crawling into her bed when she was eleven. *The son-of-a-bitch was cold*. The thought was perhaps the only kind one she'd ever had about kitten-killer David. Was this Inner Horizon shit finally working? She dismissed the idea like a bad smell in the room.

What in hell was taking James so long? She had heard the Suburban rumble past the window on the way to the hospital, she thought.

Then the shower rings jingled and Pavlov's dog couldn't have climbed up James' lanky body and thrown its legs around his waist any faster. James grunted -- she couldn't tell if he was thrown by her weight or was simply speechless because her tongue was already halfway down his throat. He had just started to kiss her back when the door to the bathroom banged open. *Clomp clomp clomp*. Someone in clogs passed the curtained tub and settled on the toilet. The thunder of a cow pissing on a flat rock. James' eyes locked on Lydia's. She could feel silent laughter shaking his chest and she had to bite her lip to keep from hooting aloud.

Thankfully, Healing House's ancient pipes saved them from being overheard-- that, and the fact that the Pee Clogger didn't bother to wash at the sink.

The door banged and the snort flew out of Lydia like a caged bird. "Shit," James breathed into her ear, "that was close." "Not as close as this, big boy." Lydia grappled at his belt buckle but James held her hands away from his body. '"Don't," he said. "There's no way I can concentrate. Not after all the shit that's gone down today. "

By then, the itch was like jungle drums. "Concentrate? Just don't think!" Lydia had a momentary flash of empathy with the crazy girl who'd just had her body hi-jacked by a seizure. That was the unbearable feeling Lydia was having inside without any flopping or jerking. \"Pleeeeeease!" The word came out like a whine, but she couldn't help it. If James didn't help her get off, she was going to fly into a million jagged pieces.

The curtain rings were already jingling behind him. Pavlov's dog has an empty bowl. "Just chill," James said on his way out. The temperature in the tub dropped another twenty degrees.

**Outdoor Activity**

Saturday. Outdoor Activity day. Everybody was running around trying to find their expedition wear. Old Girl, ski-hatted, gloves in her pocket, sweating in puffy down at the front door, feIt like a pre-schooler. Where's the mitten leash that went through both arms of the coat and over her neck?

It reminded Old Girl of waiting at the front door for Mom to wrestle Gabe into his snowsuit. Because she was three years older, she could dress herself while Gabe, the baby, had to be crammed into his clothes like a sausage. She could still see Mom holding the baby between her legs and coaxing him to stomp down so she can get his square little foot corked in the boot. At Old Girl's far removal, she half-imagined hearing a pop when the foot finally slipped in. A *bloop* instead of a *thwock*? The reverse of a champagne cork's pop. What was Gabe doing during all the pushing and shoving? She searched her treasure trove of memories in the happy, sun-dappled Before of her life, and came up blank. Gabe was a smiter-- not like her, a colicky screamer according to Peggy, her mother's sister, and now her Guardian with her husband, David, in the perpetual After. Her mind went as empty as an ice-covered lake. Something was erasing her happiest moments around the edges. She couldn't remember Dad's smell like she used to. She used to be able to call up Dad, a builder, by smelling fresh-cut wood. Now when she carried kindling and split logs for Healing House's woodstove, all she smelled was pine or pitch. Dad was gone, carried up the chimney and released into the frigid air -- even further gone than the night Peggy held her on her lap and told her a half-blind senior citizen had crashed into all three of them.

The sky was its usual color of cement. The Suburban hammered along Highway 95 toward Lake Pend O'Reille (Pon-der-ay, that's how Josh told them to say it). A French name from some ancient trapper who was looking for beavers to slaughter. No beavers here, just a pack of kids squirrelly from being trapped on top of each other. They hadn't been let out for Outdoor Activity for almost a month because of the relentless storms. People were singing into fists held like fake microphones to the radio. Some country western sob song, *Prayin' for daylight*,*waitin' for that morning sun* they all screamed. Old Girl had never gotten used to the noise. When Peggy shipped her out to Idaho after eating all her Valium, the first thing she understood had been taken away from her was a quiet place to hear herself think.

James and Lydia already had a black mark (a rating of one) plus a warning for inappropriate touching barely five miles away from the house. Now James sat next to Josh in the front seat, so his wandering hands couldn't reach Lydia's crotch. Rachel, the new girl, who was now slumped against the window next to James. There had been a big debate among the staff about whether she should be allowed to come on the hike, but she'd checked out okay at the hospital. Old Girl got stuck with Princess Lydia in the far back. Barfland was glacial. Yesterday, Lydia forgot to mention nymphomania in her behavioral introduction to Being a nympho was the first thing Lydia usually hit you with. Anorexia and bulimia and cutting were too outcognito to brag about. Luckily, Lydia had borrowed somebody's IPod and emitted tinny hip-hop rhythms from her ear buds so Old Girl didn't have to pretend she was interested in how many times Lydia has traded oral sex for candy in the past week.

Instead, Old Girl contemplated the white world beyond Inner Journeys. Frankly, it looked pretty much like the view from Healing House, with endless blue-tinged trees and a frozen landscape in which nothing moved. What would it be like to walk out into the white and keep walking? How long would it take before you were far enough away from civilization to lie down and sleep? About a mile was Old Girl's calculation. Less if it was snowing.

Josh planned to make them snowshoe up to a mountain lake that fed into the main lake. It was supposed to take a couple hours up; less on the way back. Snow wasn't forecast, but if it dumped, they'd turn around and head for the van. The Suburban throbbed with migraine level noise. Old Girl felt like she was always being assaulted. You live with eighteen troubled adolescents and the first thing you realize they confiscated from you was quiet. Old Girl was used to wearing her IPod but it had seen stolen by some asshole two weeks ago. Another IPod was stolen this week. You didn't catch old Girl whining about it, like Lydia, next to her, jerking her head to the beat. Old Girl had darker plans for the thief that involved pressing a piece of glass she found on the street to the asshole's windpipe. She fingered the sharp edge of the triangular shard in her pocket. Sharp enough to slice her finger pad with a tiny bit of pressure, apparently. She tried it, idly, like nibbling at the edge of a cake. Just enough to give herself a little taste until she could have the whole slice.

\* \* \* \*

The trail climbed gently for a mile, then got steeper in a hurry. James was glad to stretch his legs on something other than a treadmill in an unheated barn. If he ever made it out of Intensive to Transition, he could play basketball again and he wanted to be in shape. Would the move to Transition be like moving from one circle of hell to the next? At night, he'd been working his way through Healing House's rag-tag library to combat the mind-numbing boredom. He was in the middle of *The Inferno*, not that he'd ever let on to his parents who had eons ago given up on the idea that James would ever be interested in anything but X --Box.

It quieted down in a hurry once the going got harder. Lydia lagged several people behind him in a snit. She was mad about getting a warning in the car, even madder at James because he'd been wrestling her hand away from his crotch, which was how they got caught. James would have given her a black mark too. Reaching down his pants in plain sight was idiotic. Demeaning, like he was a piece of meat. He had been happy to be the meat when she first came on to him, but now James felt increasingly wary. The incident in the bathtub, when Darlene rushed in to pee (he caught a glimpse of her neon orange ski jacket), would have gotten both of them sent to Stabilization, a medicated gulag somewhere even deeper in the hinterlands of Idaho than Healing House. James wasn't interested in moving lower on Inner Horizon's circles of hell. Intensive already ranked right up there with Paolo and Francesca's hellish windstorm.

It wasn't that he didn't enjoy Lydia's blowjobs, or the novelty of sex in the men's bathroom on the lame community school campus where he was taking Intro to Psychology, Intro to Sociology and Intro to Humanities. (*Progress!* His mother enthused on the phone.) He wondered if there was an Intro to Life. Lately, he'd been getting the feeling that Lydia's motivations had more to do with risk than any feeling of connection with him. He wasn't looking for eternal love, he told himself. It would be nice to just be liked.

The new girl, Rachel, tramped steadily behind him. She was a dancer so she must be in pretty good shape. She was keeping up with him and they were way up ahead of the pack. Angela --Old Girl was a few steps behind them, but she didn't count because Angela spent hours on the treadmill every day and James was always having to trade her his allowance money so she'd let him have his forty-five minutes of pain. Five dollars! What trouble can you get in with five bucks? Sam, his dealer, told him one time about nickel bags, but to James, that was as far distant as the days of the dinosaurs.

The only sound: the schuss-swish of the snowshoes. Giant snow-shrouded pines pinched off the dim sun. It wasn't that cold \-- not for Idaho --maybe twenty-five degrees? Rachel stepped on the back of his snowshoe and he almost fell. "Sorry!" she said. James kneeled to reorient his snowshoe and tighten the strap. "It's okay, I was lagging."

"Maybe we should wait for the others?" Rachel's tone was tentative, like she didn't have the right to make a suggestion. She was still in the honeymoon phase with Inner Horizon's rules, worrying about the stay-together lecture they got from Josh at the trailhead. Angela passed them, stepping out of the trail and skirting them without a word. So much for waiting, James thought. "It's okay. As long as the three of us hang together."

He fell in behind Angela. The stillness of the wilderness made him feel miniscule. No foot tracks---just the soft skitter pads of some four footed creature. A fox? James would like to see a fox. Not many wild animals in Malibu. Unless you counted Sly Stallone, their next-door neighbor. What he'd really like to see is a wolf. He'd settle for a moose. Something majestic. If he saw a moose, he'd have something safe to talk about with Dad and Dr. Mom on the weekly family therapy call. Family torture call, everybody called it. Why didn't his parents just give it up and accept that he was a loser? Not everybody could be like Susan, his sister, with A's on every report card, President of the Student Body, accepted by Yale *and* Princeton which took a month of agonizing dinner time debate while James sat at the dining room table hoping his report card hadn't arrived. He checked the mail faithfully the minute he got home but once he started coming home drunk or stoned, who knew what fell through the cracks? A shit load, apparently.

> **\* \* \* \***

Rachel heard it before she saw it. A sound like distant breaking glass. Then thrashing and gnashing accompanied by breathy snorts like a horse in distress. Angela raced ahead up the blue- shadowed trail, followed by James who was fleet as a deer. A thunderous crack. An odd whinnying that didn't sound like any horse Rachel had ever heard in her junior riding days, got louder, more hysterical, as they ran.

By the time they reached the lake, the elk was already tiring. Rachel could see the cloven hoof prints that lead to a jagged-edged pool a hundred yards from shore. An elk floundered there, its fore-hooves trying to scrabble a purchase on the edge of the ice. She would lunge part way up, heaving her massive withers onto the shelf and then the ice would break with her weight. Every time the elk seemed to get up on the edge, another cliff of snow-covered ice would crack off like a whip. The black water was dotted with snow clumps and floating ice that shuddered and bobbed while the creature swam in circles.

"Holy shit," James' voice was awestruck.

"How can we help?" Angela's voice broke like an over-tuned harp string. Even in Rachel's astonishment at the sight of the drowning creature, she registered the fracture of Angela's careful cooler-than-thou facade. *So she has a heart* flitted through her mind while the elk made another lunge. It had huge antlers and starting eyes that rolled in terror as it swam.

"Don't go out there. You'll fall in." James sounded as if he'd already accepted the inevitable.

Angela wasn't having any of that crap. "We need a stick!" She started yanking at a clump of downed logs partially submerged at the lake's edge. She got her hands on a stout branch and was using her body weight, trying to break it off at the trunk.

"What's it going to hold on with?" James eyed Angela as if she were nuts. "Don't even think about going out there!"

"Maybe we can lever its body up. Just enough to help it onto the thicker ice. " Angela was talking to Rachel and with both girls jumping on the branch, it finally began to splinter.

Rachel had the ice-laden branch in her bare hands when the elk made its final shuddering heave. It fell helplessly back, and then, as they gazed in amazement, it seemed to give up. For a few unearthly seconds, as its head and body sank, Rachel saw the candelabra points of the antlers lit by a thin ray of sun. A crown floated as if suspended by unseen strings above the black water. When the antlers slipped soundlessly under, the only sign that the elk had been there were a few slowing whorls in the snow-blotted hole.

Josh and the rest of the group broke onto the lakeshore and Josh started barking at them in a passed off voice. "What the hell were you thinking?\" You're supposed to stay with the group!" He issued a second warning to James, and Angela and Rachel both got ones for poor peer interactions and ignoring the rules. Rachel was still fuzzy about Inner Journeys' arcane system of "consequences," which involved numbers from one to three for everything from household chores to therapeutic progress, whatever that meant.

Rachel opened her mouth to tell the group about the drowning elk when Angela slipped sideways, nearly knocking her to the ground. *What the\--?* James had turned away from the group, and was acting like he was busy inspecting a clump of sad aspen saplings with some kind of blight. Rachel took Angela's glower as a hint. She shut her mouth. "Jesus, watch where you're going," Rachel said to Angela, yanking her snowshoe away.

Josh was the one who pointed out the jagged hole in the ice. Mr. Wilderness in a flannel cap and wool Army-Navy pants. "Looks like something fell through. Can anybody guess what?"

Everybody, except Rachel, Angela and James, hazarded an idea. Reza said it was a bear. "Look how big the hole is. You can see its claw marks."

An acne-inflicted boy Rachel hadn't met rolled his eyes in disgust. "It's winter, dumb ass. Bears are in hibernation." Somebody else noticed the tracks and thought maybe a deer fell through. Other suggestions included elephants, giraffes, and zebras, along with Godzilla and Dr. Buchanan, the head of the program.

A few light snowflakes drifted in sideways. That ended the nature lesson. Josh called for an about-face before the snow got serious and told them to hightail it back to the Suburban. Josh, a native Idahoan, had some weird localisms. On the car ride up to the trailhead, he'd yelled back at one of the kids *Shut your pie hole*. Not a phrase Rachel had heard in the Chicago bedroom community of Naperville where she'd grown up until the year her mom was killed in a house fire.

The fire was the demarcation line in Rachel's maturity. Afterwards, she couldn't decide if she was hopelessly older or hopelessly younger than her peers. Epilepsy was just the icing on her Mom-less cake. Hardly worth mentioning, except for the embarrassment of yesterday's performance. She was still touched that James had tried to squeeze her hand. Didn't he realize she had wet her pants? Had the black pants she wore like a uniform protected her like she hoped? She couldn't see how. So when he gave her a lopsided little grin, and took up a position right behind her on the trail, as if he wanted to watch over her, her heart gave a tiny lurch.

\* \* \* \*

James had the bad luck to run into Rachel in the girl's bathroom at Northern Idaho Community College. He was coming out of the disabled person's stall after waiting a minute or two for the coast to clear. Lydia had already strolled out -- after reapplying her lipstick (blow jobs are rough on lipstick; James had pink stains on his underwear to prove it) -- while James took his time doing some back stretches. Standing sex put a strain on his back. It wasn't that Lydia was heavy, the opposite, in fact. Lydia was more like an oversexed doll than a normal-sized 18- year-old like Rachel, a girl he hardly knew from the program who was leaning against the sink with an expression of concern in her eyes.

"Why do you let her abuse you that way?" Rachel said.

"Abuse me? We have sex."

"Lydia doesn't give a shit about you. Aren't you worth more than a blow job? "

I'm worth less than a blow job, James thought.

"Do you mind?" Rachel waved toward a stall. \"I\'m here for a reason.\"

Well, me too, James wanted to say. But the door swung open and shit-on-a-stick, James's Intro to Humanities teacher, Mrs. Lengel, walked in.

Professor Lengel looked enquiringly at him. James flashed her his trademark crumpled smile, like maybe she'd think he got mixed up between the Men\'s and the Women\'s and beat it the hell out of there.

He didn't think Rachel would rat him out back at Inner Journeys, but you never knew. People made up stories about each other in Process Group all the time to relieve the boredom. All he knew about Rachel was that she was a cutter. She seemed a lot more interested in hurting herself than someone as lame as James. He could always hope.

\* \* \* \*

The professor looked like she wanted to call 9-1-1. "Do you know him?"

"We're both at Inner Journeys," Rachel said.

Lengel, unlike every townie she'd ever met, didn't look away or raise her fingers at her in a vampire's cross when Rachel mentioned the treatment program. Surprise wrote itself on the teacher's face. "He's the smartest kid in my Intro to Humanities class. What's he doing *there?*"

Trying to survive, like the rest of us, Rachel thought.

"You'd think with those brains he'd be able to tell the difference between the Men's and the Women's." The professor was smiling at her. It was weird how Rachel seemed to have lost the ability to recognize a joke when it was offered. Still, the little attempt at humor felt like being remembered on your birthday with something you actually wanted.

Then it occurred to her that her American Literature prof thought James was meeting *her*. "He's not my boyfriend. He was here when I came in!"

The professor gazed steadily at Rachel and nodded, as if to say 'that explains something I've been wondering. What she could have been wondering about Rachel, Rachel hadn't a clue. She was taking Lengel\'s American Literature survey class and turned her papers in on time, got mostly A's -- a few B's \-- on her essay tests. Well, except for her latest paper on *Huck Finn*. Rachel was still reeling from the big fat C- minus. Lengel had written, in red accusatory ink, "Come see me!" next to the crappy grade. Before running into her in the bathroom, Rachel had planned to stop by her office after class. God forbid, Lengel would talk about her paper on Huck and Jim\'s homoerotic relationship while some older woman was making disgusting noises in one of the stalls?

"He said he surfed in Malibu," Lengel said.

Rachel shrugged. \"I guess. I don\'t really know him.\"

"Maybe he heard the surf was up in Lake Coeur D'Alene."

Again, Lengel 's mild attempt at humor took Rachel a minute to process. Professors were somewhere between gods and alien beings to Rachel, like Martians, but better read. The idea that a professor could be a human being hadn\'t occurred to her. In fact, it struck her as more intimate than she wanted to admit, that Lengel was in the women's restroom to pee.

As if Rachel's thought prompted her to action, the professor headed into a stall, saying, "Tell James to stop by my office." Then Rachel heard her muffled voice through the barrier. "And don\'t forget to make your appointment. Your Huck Fin paper is a mess.\"

Great, Rachel thought. Now we're both in trouble.

\* \* \* \*

After the car crash, James' parents --Dr. Ida and Joe --had done their research and shipped him off to the best wilderness camp in America, (according to Cliff Summit's website, not that James cared that it was highly rated by parents and psychiatric personnel both). It sucked big time. He had to hike twelve or fifteen miles a day carrying a 60-pound pack while detoxing from alcohol and weed and every other mood enhancer he'd used to anaesthetize his loser self since he'd turned 15.

The first ten days, James thought he was going to die, climbing up mountain trails sweating gin and tequila till he was soaked to his underwear. He remembered waking up one morning in a frigid sleeping bag that smelled like the morning after a keg party His tent mate, Teddy, claimed he got high off James's fumes. That first week all James could think about was wanting to throw up and let loose of his bowels with every step.

And then, day by day, the fumes blew away with the biting wind and the clouds in his head disappeared and one morning he found himself at the end of a long high desert slog in a rust and purple amphitheater of petrified Utah sandstone. He'd never seen anything so strange, almost like a Martian landscape, with the smell of pinyon resin strong enough to rip his sinuses out of his nose.

He wondered whether the awful beauty of his desert surroundings struck him like a punch to the temple because of his near death experience with detox; or was it the unbelievable relief he felt that the dry heaves and bleeding blisters and noxious sweat that actually stung his eyes like his own bodily fluids had turned against him was over?

Whatever it was, ever after, he thought of his enforced time in the high desert wilderness of southern Utah like a religious experience. In his privileged and misspent life, he had never experienced the feeling of sustained serenity that constant physical exhaustion, exposure to cold, thirst, and extreme hunger provided. Eight other troubled souls marched --well, slogged, scrambled, stumbled, crawled and crab-walked (James thought of Sammy, a fat kid, who got seam burns on his inner thighs). Everybody except the counselors whined, complained, seethed, moaned, pissed and swore their way through the trails\-- while James felt like he flew through the rugged territory like the peregrine falcons that soared overhead.

Now that he was at Inner Journeys, he wished he was back in Utah. The program gave him a cheesy certificate after three months and said he was ready for \"the next step on your therapeutic journey\": program speak for \"now that you\'re comfortable here, we\'re shipping you off to a different gulag. Welcome to Idaho. Where you can bang your head against a library table for hours trying to avoid thinking about why you\'re here.

James, hunkered down at a library table away from everybody so he could work, reworked the fourth, no, the fifth draft of his Impact Letter. He kept rewriting it and Josh, his therapist kept rejecting it because his "accountability" content was way too general. *Make it real* Josh kept saying, which James interpreted as *make it bleed*. Frankly, James had bled plenty over his god-damned Impact Letter. What the hell did the name "Impact Letter" even mean? Hit yourself on the head with a hammer. Smash into a eucalyptus tree, like the one James had crashed into with the girl. James had walked away from the impact; he pushed away the image of the bleeding lump he\'d abandoned in the passenger seat. Maybe the girl he\'d shared a joint with had walked away from the ravine in Malibu into a happy life. Miracles happen, he told himself. Just not to me.

\* \* \* \*

White page. White snow shrouded tree. White lawn, lumpy with three feet of snow. Even the Idaho people were shaking their heads at the record-breaking snow. A raven scraped across the sky outside the window in the library carrel. Its dark shadow looked like jerky line of handwriting across an empty page.

What he was supposed to do in his Impact Letter was own up to his behaviors. "Take accountability" for all the shit he'd done to his parents. There were two big problems with the assignment due in two hours for his family therapy call. Problem One. James couldn't remember half the shit he'd done in his alcohol and weed and downer-laden fog. Wildly overshadowed by Problem Two: he didn't want to remember ever an iota of what he'd done.

At night, around two or three, odd flashes of memories continually woke him: a cracked wind shield. The girl with the red hair band toking a joint. A curving canyon road lined by two black chasms. He cracked a breath mint and the taste brought back the eucalyptus smell that filled the Corvette in his first waking moments after the crash.

Why would anybody want to take accountability for walking away from the sound of labored breathing? Who would have thought there could be so much blood in him or her? James had a crappy paperback copy of MacBeth in his backpack, cadged from Healing House's library. In his first months of incarcerated boredom before he'd "earned" the right to take a few classes, he'd whipped through all the thrillers and spy novels, even the romances (not that he'd admit to enjoying them). Now he was down to the stuff nobody else would read and even more surprisingly, had discovered he'd been eating cotton candy when great bloody raw steak was available.

He printed laboriously. "I got in a car crash while stoned." Did it sound better to write *I got stoned and the car got away from me*? A memory of leaning over to toke a joint that the girl -- he didn't even know her name \--held out to him. *A girl in a red hair band asked me to give her a ride up Topanga Canyon*. *I thought I was being a good citizen saving the girl in the red hair band from taking the bus.*

James brushed the memory of the crash away like the glass shards that had littered his lap.

"I stole some money." It wasn't like taking twenty or thirty bucks from the cash drawer his mom left for the house cleaners was a giant deal. Fungible. A new word he learned in Intro to Humanities with Dr. Lengel. Mom, an infectious disease researcher, replenished the drawer like clockwork every few weeks. What was a fungible fin or three between family?

He checked the clock on the library wall. An hour already lost. Mrs. Lengel pointed out a list sentence in Huck Fin about rafting on the Mississippi that lazed on for 174 words. *When you're stuck you can always write a list.* Her advice*.*

Lying

Drinking

Getting stoned

Skipping class

Writing prescriptions from Dr. Ida's prescription pad.

Taking household items.

Had Dad missed the Patek Phillippe watch yet? James circled back and scratched out the prescription pad admission. Maybe Mom, who was brilliant about stuff like sleeping sickness and river blindness but clueless about simple James, hadn't caught on yet. He still had a blank pad or two hidden away, just in case. What else? Just cover the big stuff Josh had said. Where did walking away from a bleeding lump in the passenger seat fall? Was there some category beyond the big stuff for the truly heinous?

Driving while intoxicated.

The last item on the list of big stuff. He shut the notebook, releasing the heinous into the sky with the raven. Nevermore.

\* \* \* \*

A big, heavily cut guy in a muscle shirt showing all his ripples mixed Mountain Dew and root-beer and Coke together at the self-serve stand in the cafeteria, so Lydia could admire all that gym time from the back. Unfortunately, when the dweeb turned around, he had a farmer's beard that made his face look like a shovel. Probably one of those Mormon boys who'd been kicked out of his polygamist family so he couldn't compete with the old men for their 15 year old wives. In Lydia's Intro to sociology class (which she was skipping right now) they'd had a discussion about Utah's homeless problem -- the population of young men thrown out of their homes was unbelievably high in Salt Lake City and the question was whether Idaho, with its big Mormon population, had the same problem. Mr. Shovel Face parked his drink at a table in front of her and Lydia hoped he wouldn't face her so she could fantasize about having sex with his faceless body. She had her standards -- beards and facial hair, especially long sideburns and Hitler mustaches were immediate deal-killers. David had both. Even the whisper of memory of his scratchy feel made Lydia\'s stomach shudder.

She'd eaten eleven donuts on her way to Soc class (they were supposed to be for class until she suddenly decided to skip it so she\'d have plenty of time to vomit them up). In the Inner Horizon van, on their way into town, she\'d talked Phil, the new driver, into stopping at Dunkin\' Donuts for her. He was old --forty, fifty? -- and all Lydia had to do was shine her big eyes his direction. How tough was it to brush against his arm? Or put her hand on his shoulder when she sat in the seat right behind him? The guy was newly divorced, an open wound oozing in every direction: why not trade some Lydia candy in return for a little favor like a box of maple bars and crullers?

Mr. Shovel Face took his drink over to the phone booth -- he was truly cut, big guns for lats, sick pythons for biceps. It cost 50 cents to place a local call and Lydia had exactly 24 cents to her name. In the program money was the other controlled substance. It was easier to get Prozac or Klonapine than a measly five bucks. Maybe when Shovel Head gave up the dinosaur phone -- she wasn't sure she even remembered how to use one --Lydia could talk a couple quarters out of him to call somebody in Soc class to borrow their notes.

Not having her I-phone, a G2 just like her mother's, was a goddamned tragedy. Life was bearable (barely) with its third ear attached to Lydia's larynx. When the Inner Journeys staff packed it away, (along with her new Apple Air laptop and her Bose mini-speakers and her BlueTooth headset) it felt like someone had ripped her ears from her head. Her therapist, Dr. Ian, said that unplugging was good for her -- it removed the crutch of superficial connections. "Pseudo connections", the term he used. But what if pseudo connections were all she could handle? Howzit going, 'sup? LOL, OMG, seemed like plenty to navigate, especially in comparison to the minefield of conversation at home.

Mr. Shovel Head was gesturing vehemently in the phone booth like he was talking to somebody on the other end of the line who didn't get it. She and Mom texted as their main form of communication. If he would text instead of talk, he would have been able to control the conversation and steer it out of troubled waters, like she and her mom steered past each other. Ships in the night. Her mom loved to tell anyone who would listen that texting was infinitely easier than talking to a nutcase teenager.

Really, though, Mom was the nutcase; she acted younger, even more out of control than Lydia. The last time Lydia had seen her \-- the day Gran and Papa put her in the program, Mom drove up to the house in Grosse Point in her new red Corvette with a 22 year old at the wheel. Lydia recognized the driver, Jason Horvath, who was 3 years ahead of her in high school. How embarrassing was that? Mom, the Cougar, in tight Lulu Lemon pants, a lacey black bra hanging out of her camisole, glued to Jason's arm like she needed him to stand up. For being 44, Mom looked hot (all the beauty money and a good cosmetic surgeon could buy, she liked to say). Plus she lived on rice cakes and nonfat-yogurt which meant she was always starved enough to take down a deer. The last thing she had said to Lydia (thank God Jason Horvath had been sent off to pick up her masseuse, so he didn\'t hear her) was, \"I hope you grow up in Idaho. Let\'s hope you\'re at least twelve the next time I see you.\" If Mom was only thirteen, how the hell would she know when Lydia surpassed her?

Time to eject the donuts before they had a chance to turn into cellulite. She could feel them pressing against her waistband like they\'d morphed into one fat dough ball. Shovel Face smiled at her on the way past. As if. She was already tasting hot acid at the back of her throat. Still. Lydia could feel farm boy\'s eyes following her, so she made a conscious effort to hip-sling her way down the toilet. But her mind was already moving toward the Zen of ejection and purification. Her gag reflex was so well trained, she didn\'t have to struggle to bring food up anymore; not like her early efforts when she had to drink Ipecac until she learned the trick of touching her tonsils. Stick your fingers deep enough in your throat and the stuff practically rocketed out of you.

Between barfing and banging, she spent a shitload load of time in the restroom, Lydia thought, swishing another mouthful of Listerine at the sink.

\* \* \* \*

If she hurried, she could meet with Dr. Lengel and pick up another copy of *Huck Finn* at the bookstore before she had to meet the van. Somebody had stolen her*s*. A steady slippage of Ipods and deodorants and shampoo and pieces of clothing had been going MIA with the regularity of a metronome. Rachel had just lost her cashmere sweater, a birthday present from her Gran. It was one of the few times the old woman had given her a present that she actually wanted. Gran, a snappy seventy-year-old with the energy of a coiled spring, haunted garage sales (her idea of entertainment) and was always giving Rachel an endless series of antique teacups. All with a story of their maker and their age and how valuable they were. She knew because "she looked it up in the book," an ancient dog-eared Bible of antique china that she always carried with her in an enormous alligator purse, another garage sale find.

*Miss Lucy had a baby.\
His name was Tiny Tim.\
She put him in the bathtub\
To see if he could swim.\
He drank up all the water.\
He ate up all the soap.\
He tried to eat the bathtub,\
But it wouldn\'t go down his throat.\
Miss Lucy called the doctor.\
Miss Lucy called the nurse.\
Miss Lucy called the lady\
With the alligator purse.*

Gran's bag was big enough to stick Tiny Tim and the bathtub in and carry him off. That's what had happened (at Gran's and Mom's direction) after Rachel gave birth. A nurse had laid the tiny red wrinkly boy on her chest after 28 hours of hard labor and she dozed off feeling his bird weight and when she opened her eyes, he was flown. Could you *lose* a baby? Apparently. Technically, he had been taken away from her "for her own good"---she was only 16 when she got pregnant \--but she always thought of the tiny boy as lost, as in "I've misplaced him" which gave her the feeling that if a miracle happened, he would be found again.

Originally they had agreed to let her keep him \--that's what she wanted. But Gran and Mom both ganged up on her in her last month of pregnancy. "You're too young." "You're not ready for the responsibility." "It'll ruin your life before it's even started." They were right about that. They took her out of St. Edwards High (the Catholics didn't want a bad apple morphing into a watermelon in their midst) and she lost all her friends. At the alternative school they made her go to, she walked around like a fatter and fatter ghost. Her brother pretended like he didn't know her, and all her aunts and uncles stopped talking to her as if pregnancy was some kind of plague. Then, as if all that was only a preamble to hell, Gran and Mom told her they wouldn't lift a finger for her if she kept him. Out on the street at sixteen, no job skills, no degree, unable to buy diapers and baby food. "You'll both starve."

There were worse things than starving, Rachel found out. After having the baby, she went down a rabbit hole but unlike Alice, she never came around. All she did was tumble farther, faster and deeper into darkness. The only thing that brought her toward the light \--and that was only temporary -- was cutting.

*\"Mumps,\" said the doctor.\
\"Measles,\" said the nurse.\
\"Razor,\" said the lady\
With the alligator purse.*

Cutting was the only time she felt alive. So she brought back the birth pangs by slicing her armpits and the bottoms of her feet and the insides of her thighs with a salted razor. Until one day, two months ago, she couldn't stop and she opened the arteries of both wrists down to bone. Welcome to Healing House.

*Out went the doctor.\
Out went the nurse.\
Out went the lady\
With the alligator purse.*

\* \* \* \*

"Are you, like, the only black person in Idaho?" James asked his therapist. Josh to James, Dr. Joshua Isaiah Samuelson, Ph.D, to the world, raised one eyebrow. "There's my wife."

James wanted to waste time until his parents called in on the conference line. "One time I saw you downtown and people turned around to look at you so fast you could hear the wind whip through their ears."

"Feeling anxious, are you?"

"I'll be on the hot seat soon enough. Seriously, don't you feel weird being the only one?"

Josh shrugged. "Anybody different always stands out."

James, blond, blue-eyed, basket ball fit, would have fit right in with the Aryan Nation headquartered nearby on Priest Lake; still, he wouldn't have been surprised to discover a secret Inner Journeys pheromone that telegraphed "misfit!" to anyone who came within a hundred yards. Was that how the Mormon polygamist wives felt? Yesterday, he had seen two young girls, at the most 15 or 16, shopping at Rexall Drug in long pioneer dresses. Both girls had strange Elvis-type pompadours over their foreheads that cascaded into intricate rolls of hair down their backs. James couldn't figure out the physics of the braids woven into the rolls. If he'd had a sister who was into hair dressing, instead of calculus, he would have asked her how they did it. \"Any advice on how to get through this?"

"Be real."

James was unconvinced of the value of reality; he'd been successfully at avoiding it for years. Duh-DUT. Duh-DUT. Somebody with a sick sense of humor had reprogrammed the conference phone to play the theme song from "Jaws." Last week it played "Somewhere Over the Rainbow."

"Hi, sweetheart!" Dr Ida, faky cheery today unlike last week's ice queen. Dad growled, "Hey Bud." His old pet name for James. When was the last time he'd used it?

"Hey." It was only one little word but it came out of James half strangled, as if his vocal cords had already seized up.

Josh laid down the ground rules. James had spent the last few weeks working on *his* Impact letter, a response to the Impact letter Dr. and Mr. Olson had written detailing the events that led up to sending James to Inner Journeys. That's when James had learned the hard way the *real* reason they called it an Impact Letter: the heinous stuff his parents said he'd done hit him like a rain of stones. Now that the lacerations had finally scabbed over, James was supposed to open them back up by "taking ownership of his behaviors." Inner Journeys. Where they flayed your skin off an inch at a time.

Josh nodded at him: Put neck (A) into guillotine (B).

"Mom and Dad, there's been a lot of lying." His words came out low and mumbled, but at least they were out there. He'd lied to them both so many times he couldn't remember telling them the truth.

"Sometimes I stole stuff to get money for drugs." Throat clearing from Dad. Was he thinking about the time James crawled into their bedroom on his stomachso he could empty the wallet Dad kepton the dresser? "Occasionally, I also brought drugs into the house." Translation: every day, every hour, every minute he could get his hands on anything psychotropic.

"Excuse me, honey. When you say you stole from us, are you talking about taking Grandpa's coin collection?" Dr. Ida interrupted James' concentration.

"Or the house money?\" Dad asked.

Hey, if they could put Tylenol on the grocery list, why not uppers? Downers? James thought.

Dad said, "I wonder if you could talk specifics. Saying you stole from us is kind of general."

Stay above the surface, he told himself. The only way to get through the quagmire was to hop from one bobbing hummock to another; if he stepped in the quicksand of explanation, he'd sink over his head in slime. Tonelessly, he answered, "Both."

"Your mother thinks you've been writing prescriptions and signing her name. " Dad pressed on.

Poke me with a sharp stick and I poke back: The ancient path of their fights, deep as a wagon rut, opened before James like a well-known thoroughfare. "Cut me some slack here! Can't you give me some credit? I'm trying?"

Josh interjected in a calm voice. "I didn't hear your dad accusing you," he said, to James. "He was just asking you to clarify."

Clarify that I'm a disappointment. Clarify that I'm a liar and a thief and a fuck-up was what James heard. He looked down at the list of behaviors he had painstakingly written and rewritten. He was maybe three admissions into a list that ran single spaced down both sides of his paper. He plowed doggedly on. "There was lot of school skipping."

Dr. Ida's turn. \"Are you going to answer Dad about forging prescriptions? Do you know I can get fired for that?\"

All of Josh's coaching sloughed off like a layer of soggy tissue. James didn't dare open his mouth, because if he did, his voice would crack and there'd be no holding back the howl that wanted to be heard. Before Josh could stop him, James reached over and punched the off switch to the phone. A dial tone droned over the speakers. An EKG machine no longer able to register a pulse.

"What's the use?" asked James.

"I'm not the one who feels like the only black person in Idaho," Josh said. "It's you."

\* \* \* \*

Bad luck. Lydia sat down next to Rachel at the dinner table. The girl was always trying to glom onto Rachel. She didn't have any other friends that Rachel could detect except James, of course, and it wasn't clear friendship had anything to do with what they had going.

The cook and her helper had already served out the plates and then James plopped into the only open seat at the table -- directly across from her. Great. The unholy trinity.

"Where've you been?" Lydia wanted to know.

"The treadmill."

James' hair was wet and even across the table, Rachel could smell his shampoo. A fresh clean smell. It made the weird patty of mystery meatloaf smothered in neon orange "barbecue" sauce even more disgusting than usual.

Dinner was always a trial. The anorexics shoved the food around on their plates in circles and inevitably, they had to be\" supervised\" which meant Patsy, the passive-aggressive cook, stood over them while they choked down minuscule bite after bite, whining with every swallow that they were already stuffed. The boys, especially the ones who\'d been at wilderness camp, complained bitterly about getting so much rabbit food and being limited to one piece of meat and only one roll when they were used to eating as much as they wanted after marching twenty miles a day at wilderness cap. Rachel, who hadn't been to wilderness camp and didn\'t have food issues (unless you counted her preference for eating food that tasted edible) ate the green beans (fair) and the spinach salad (fourth time that week) plus a few bites of the unidentifiable meatloaf, after scraping off the nuclear sauce. She noticed James eyeing her leftovers, so when Patsy was busy coaxing Lydia to eat her rice grain by grain, she passed over her plate.

\"Hey! Rachel is sharing food!\" Lydia cast dagger eyes at Rachel. James slipped the entire meat patty into his mouth stretching his cheeks out like a chipmunk. \"Uhhhh-uhhh, \"he protested, giving Lydia back dagger for dagger with glacial blue eyes.

Patsy gave Rachel a one for food sharing. Goddamn Lydia, the little bitch. For the moment, Rachel kept her mouth shut, but thought darkly about dipping Lydia\'s tooth brush in the toilet during the bedtime rush.

James caught up to her in the living room, right before movie time, to tell her he was sorry for getting her in trouble. "Twice in one day, that must be a record, even for you," she said.

"What?" James expression was clueless.

"Don't you remember -- in the bathroom with Lengel?"

"Oh! I didn't think --"

She interrupted him, suddenly furious. "Didn't think! That's your excuse. Don't think around me anymore!"

She purposely sat well any from him on the couch, well away from *both* James and Lydia, although she didn't see Lydia in the living room where they were gathered to watch "Alien" on the TV. Rachel had had enough drama for the day. When somebody dimmed down the lights, even though she\'d already seen "Alien" about ten times, she was thankful to be alone in the flickering dark.

\* \* \* \*

They used to have fruity spray fresheners in all the bathrooms until the staff realized that the huffers in the house were enjoying their own private Idahos. So no fruity spray to cut the acrid smell of burned popcorn. Couldn't those idiots even deal with microwave? Rachel felt scratchy in the eyes, like the popcorn hadn't been cooked but incinerated. She finally got up to turn the fan in the kitchen on, even though people would whine about the noise. Listening to an engine the size of a Boeing 747 would be preferable to eating smoke.

She picked her way over the munchers on the couch and went through the dining area. The hall where all the girls slept was uncharacteristically dim. If there was one truism of life at Inner Journeys, it was an unflappable belief in shining a light in the darkness. Every house light burned till 10 pm and it was only with "special permission" that they'd been allowed to dim the living room for the movie. A weird vaporous haze drifted like a yellow fog into the brazenly lit kitchen. All the rooms down the hall were open, per the rules, except for the last one on the left. Her room. Rachel could see a thin orange matchstick of light glowing under the door.

Fire? All the TV watchers were glued to the screen, mesmerized by a crew member with his hand reaching for a door handle, where the alien lurked. Fire! Rachel really put her lungs into it.

Where? Fire! In the hall! Holy shit! Alan and Trisha, the mentors, flared into full alert and hurtled towards her. Alan sprinted down the passageway but Rachel guessed he'd been smart enough not to open the closed door. "Call 9-1-1!" They could hear him screaming while Trisha herded everybody toward the entry way. They fought with each other for coats and boots, anything they could get their hands onto keep warm in the frigid night.

Luckily Rachel hadn't taken her shoes off but somebody had glommed onto her coat before she could get to it, so she took the first coat she felt in the thickening haze. Opening the door seemed to draw the smoke towards them like a funnel and most of them were choking and gagging by the time they met up near the mail box where Trisha shooed them like a mother hen. From the parking area, away from the house, they could see orange leaping light like people dancing in the bedroom window.

Every stitch of clothing Rachel owned, all her books, her journal, a patch of see through baby blanket that was the oldest possession she owned -- the one thread of connection she still had to her mother \--went with it. She had a vision of herself on mom's warm hip, leaning against her body and rubbing the silky edge on her nose. Some of the kids near her wore blankets like Indian robes. Blankie had been a tent, a turban, a cape, a crying cloth to hold the sum of her childhood hurts and pains. The displaced Nez Perce. She'd heard that Chief Joseph led his freezing tribe on a run for Canada not far from where they were huddled. Could sorrow and travail be embedded in the stones under their feet? She was surprised when unfamiliar arms came up behind her and wrapped her in a wool Pendleton blanket she recognized from the living room couch.

James nodded in the direction of the leaping flames. "That's your room, isn't it?" The ground under foot seemed unsteady. James tightened the blanket hold and said, 'It's ok. Everybody's out."

Rachel wasn't thinking about anybody's safety. Deanna, Rachel\'s roommate blubbered like an inconsolable baby in the center of a circle of shushers and patters. Lydia stood on the outskirts of the cluster watching Rachel through cat's eyeglasses. She looked preppy, put together in a puffy pink Patagonia jacket, a matching orange and pink mohair hat rakishly tilted over one eye like an overblown peony. She'd managed to find her snow boots and rolled her wool socks carefully over the boot tops. Paul, the big kid who never spoke, shivered beside Lydia in basketball shorts and flip flops. Everybody else in their blankets and mismatched shoes looked like vagrants. How had Lydia managed to come out of the rush dressed like a fashionista?

Sirens wailed and then the lights of a police cruiser colored James red, then blue. He tightened his blanket hold around Rachel, saying, "It\'s ok. Your safe here." And the weird thing was, after all the weird things that had happened that day, Rachel wanted to believe him.

\* \* \* \*

What a day. If Margaret had her way, she\'d bring back corporal punishment and start with the brat who clogged the toilet in the boy's wing with a hand towel. Who would try to flush a *towel* down the toilet? Margaret didn't even want to think about what was on the towel. The shit these kids thought up.

If they spent half their time devoting their smarts to fixing their issues instead of acting out, they\'d all be healed. But then, of course, Margaret wouldn\'t have her shitty low-paying job as Day Supervisor at Inner Journeys. Was this the most dysfunctional, worst run psychiatric treatment facility in the country? That\'s what she\'d overheard one of the therapists telling some colleague on the private office phone while Margaret filled out fire insurance claim forms. It sounded like Ian, the therapist, was angling for a job with person he was talking to.

Through the relight in the office door Margaret could half hear the girl's process group going on in the living room. It sounded like an angry swarm of bees. Deanna had lost all her clothes in the fire and Margaret had stopped by Target on her any to work buy her size 2X replacements. Nobody had anything big enough to lend her \--not even Margaret who was wearing size 18 pants that pinched her in the belly. Too many donuts, she told herself, while writing for the 47th time under cause of incident, \"unknown\". Deanna sagged like a clump of misery in the center of the couch, with Lydia to one side of her and Danny on the other. Between a rock and a hard place. Danny and Lydia were involved in some kind of devilment against Deanna, Margaret could tell. That Danny was the meanest girl Margaret had ever met. Deanna had hit a milestone in yesterday\'s weigh-in: 285 pounds. Quite an achievement since entering the program at 345. Wouldn\'t you think those skinny girls would pat Deanna on the back for all her hard work? Hell, no, Margaret had overheard Danny ask Deanna now she could stand tosee herself in the mirror (Margaret wrote her up immediately) and she knew they called her cellulites, She just hadn\'t been ask to catch them doing it. Between the two of them, they had poor Deanna afraid to pass them in the hallway. It was like the poor girl\'s fat cells drove them crazy.

If Margaret had her say, which she didn't (who listened to the voice of common sense in a gaggle of Ph. Ds?) she'd\--. Oh Christ.

Margaret was on her feet, pen tossed to the winds, and in the middle of the cat-fight before she finished her thought. Danny was yanking at Deanna\'s hair and Deanna\--amazing! she has a temper! - clawed at Darny\'s face with (unfortunately) fingernails that were chewed to the quick. Still, Deanna had managed to bloody Danny\'s nose\--she must have gotten off the first punch\--but now Danny was popping her viciously on the ear with a closed fist. Margaret registered the street fighter\'s move, while she hauled Danny backwards still kicking and flailing. Darlene, the therapist on duty, actually sat down on Deanna. Margaret wasn\'t quite quick enough to to stop Danny\'s foot from connecting with Deanna\'s pillowy belly. Cheap shot! The little vixen. Margaret shook the skinny Danny like a rag doll. \"Stop it! Get control of yourself!\" she cried, over the sound of Deanna\'s high pitched wail.

Margaret didn\'t have time to ask what started the fight because Reza, the one with anxiety issues, started throwing up on the carpet. Margaret had just had it cleaned last week and now he was spraying chunks of barely digested eggs and oatmeal onto the back of the couch and the floor.

By the time they got everybody off to their various therapists for emergency sessions (she made the little shit Lydia scrub the couch with Anti-Icky-Poo. \"Isn\'t this the stuff you use on dog shit?\" Lydia asked. "Poop. Vomit. It\'s all the same,\" Margaret answered) it was time for Margaret to make her weekly Status Calls to twenty parents about each kid\'s \"progress in daily living.\" Margaret wished fervently she could tell someone how she herself was progressing in daily living. Was that job at the Tasty Freeze still open? It paid a dollar an hour less than Day Supervisor at Healing House (Heller House is what Margaret called it when she talked to Hank, her truck driver husband, in the middle of the night.) He had hurt his back lifting something stupid so they really needed her income. Jobs --ones that paid a living wage didn't grow on trees in tourist towns like Coeur D'Alene where employers hired part-time so they didn't have to pay benefits. When Dr. Hazey (the kids called him Dr. Lazy-Crazy, which told her they weren't as nuts as they seemed) told her he'd pay her hourly (crappy) plus benefits (hallelujah!) she thought she had hit the jackpot. Of course Hazey didn't mention the plugged toilets or the bag of vomit she found stashed in one of the girl's closet (her roommate had complained about the smell). Later today she had a meeting with the arson inspector. Jesus. Didn't these kids have any idea they'd have to pay a mortgage someday?

\* \* \* \*
