---
uid: 01KAGVPNW7Z5JYRAW69N1M4RFB
project: you-da-hoe
source_file: 08212025 Dr. Hazey Wants OG to Listen to Dead People plus OG Setback.pages
converted_date: '2025-11-24T19:45:11.129826'
wordcount: 681
version: 1
---

Dr. Hazey Wants OG to Listen to Dead People plus OG Setbacks

Inner Horizons keeps people alive in a suspended state like a fly wrapped in silk by a spider who's become fat by waiting to eat you. The suspended state is way fucking worse than the state where death frees you.

Running away is the only way to get free enough to go when you can't bear to stay.

Early on, she gets sent to Stabilization where you are actively drugged into catatonia and constipation so it feels like you're six feet under ground except you know you'll never get there.

Getting stuck at Inner Horizons where razors and drugs and ropes and even shoelaces are locked away makes you want to stab the person who responsible for locking you up. Unfortunately that's you.

It's a serious set back when Peggy and David give up and have her lockedup at Inner Horizons because she loses the freedom to erase herself.

It's also disastrous for her plan of caring about no one and hating everyone when she grows attached to Margaret and when she bonds with Rachel. These good people tether her to this earth when every blood cell in her body screams to be washed away.

It's a setback when Dr. Hazey introduces her to EMDR because it makes her feel better and all she's used to is feeling worse, which she long ago decided was her lot in life. She realizes she's the only one who can give herself permission to live. The only thing she's guilt of is surviving when everyone she loves is taken away.

"It's not your fault, Dr. Hazey says mildly. "You didn't control the train schedule, did you?"

"No."

"How about the big plaques in the old guy's Alzerheimer''s brain. Did you put them there?"

"No."

"What about passing his driver's license test?"

What are you getting at?"

"A lot of things beyond your control had to go wrong that day. I'm trying to get you to see that non of them were things you did."

Fucking psychiatrists. Just when she thought she had the wool firmly pulled over Hazey's hazy eyes, he showed her he saw straight through her.

"So I am supposed to be Polly Anna and magically feel better because I wasn't at fault?\"

Hazey bit down on the ear piece of his glasses like it was a carrot. "It might help you see that your family's deaths were random events. A much as you want to give yourself credit for them, you can't."

"If I'd been with them then, I would be with them now," she said.

"That's what we're really talking about. Your regret that you weren't there.

Now they were both looking out at the coots trading places on the perimeter of a giant flock paddling like crazy so none of them would freeze to death. "Regret won't bring them back. Do you think they would want you to regret living?"

White caps washed against the charcoal bodied birds, pushing the flock faster with the wind.

"No. They'd want me to live."

"Do they have any say about that?"

"What are you asking?"

"You said you talk to them all the time. Do you listen to them? If they sent you a message from the great unknown, can you hear them?"

OG's tone is bitter and stubborn. "I didn't get any say when they were killed."

"I thought you said you talked to them every day?" He pointed to the leaf on the side table by the lamp. It still had the thumbnail print that broke the fleshy part of the leaf and released the green smell he thought was thyme and she thought was lemon balm and both were probably wrong.

"You're send them smoke signals every day. Maybe they're sending something back."

He gestured to the black tee shirt that she asked Aunt Peggy to buy her at the Pike Place Market. The one that said, "I Talk to Dead People."

"If you're conversing, maybe it's time to start listening to what they have to say.
