---
uid: 01KAGWMY6HMX6G5XBKZY93PEEJ
project: you-da-hoe
source_file: 09142025 LONG SYNOPSIS Chapter Summaries.pages
converted_date: '2025-11-24T17:34:52.831965'
wordcount: 5617
version: 1
---

09142025 Chapter Summaries for Synopsis

**TODAY**

**OG Processes Why Death is Impossible When Life is So Hard**

**Margaret Saves her Job, Finds a Shoe Mate, and Learns More Than She Wants to Know About Dr. Hazey**

At 9 AM sharp on Monday, Margaret O[']{dir="rtl"}Leary, Day Supervisor at Healing House, expects to lose her jobs when she meets with Dr. Aloysius Hazey, the Founder of Inner Horizons Psychiatric Treatment Center. Dr. Hazey is furious with her though he is pretending to be relaxed. With his big feet up on his desk right in Margaret's face, the Dr. of Psychiatry berates his most caring and efficient worker on how she could have marched militantly up the Healing House driveway with a paint gun disguised as a long gun, at the exact same moment the Idaho State Insurance Review Committee arrived? Furthermore, Dr. Hazey wants to know if Margaret had any sense in her little pea brain, how could Margaret have blasted off enough shots to alarm a feral pack of raccoons into stampeding right at the committee, resulting in Dr. Irving Evensong, Committee Chairman, jumping backward on new shoes and falling over and even a full week later, STILL recovering from a Grade 3 concussion. Does Margaret know The Certification Review is now on hold? Is she aware that Dr. Hazey[']{dir="rtl"}s US Bank loan for a major Program expansion is at risk? And does she value her job enough to articulate for Dr. Hazey *What on God's green earth were you thinking?!!* Margaret, faced with a close-up view of Dr. Hazey' Triple E Italian soles, asks timidly if Dr. Hazey is aware that his shoes are mismatched and suddenly, Dr. Hazey derails himself from his diatribe long enough to realize that he can't wear one black shoe and one brown shoe to lunch with the US Bank Executive Team! Not only that, he won't be able to convince Rahel Bronffman, Lydia's mother, to stop withholding her daughter's astronomical fees. Hazey abruptly dispatches Margaret to his house on the eastern shores of Lake Coeur D'Alene to find the mate to his missing shoe. Margaret drives Hazey's gold Lexus to her boss's palatial home and discovers that Dr. Hazey enjoys heated sidewalks and driveways while she can't afford to pay her property taxes. Margaret finds the shoe but because she now has a pounding headache, she raids Hazey's medicine cabinet only to discover a treasure trove of psychotropic drugs in the medicine cabinet, all with prescriptions written in Hazey's name to kids who have left the Program.

Margaret observes Rusty Harrow, the local garbage hauler who also owns the town dump, picking up Hazey's personal garbage. He removes a discarded sausage in Hazey's garbage and eat its, while taking a smoke break on the doctor's heated steps. When Rusty finally leaves in his ancient green stake-bed truck, Margaret leaps over a coil of sausage skin he left behind as if it's a rattlesnake.

**Margaret Search for Hazey's Missing Shoe Yields a Drug Cabinet Full of Surprises**

On the day Dr. Hazey is supposed to cozy up to Lydia's mother who has just flown into Coeur D'Alene in a Lear jet, Dr. Hazey, who is sleeping badlyl, comes to work wearing one black shoe and one brown shoe. Dr. Hazey conscripts Margaret into going to his McMansion on Lake Coeur D'Alene to pick up matching shoes. Margaret discovers that not only does Hazel drive a gold Lexus, he might as well be pouring gold into the air by heating his side walks and drive way to melt the snow. Margaret raids his medicine cabinet for an Excedrin and discovers a drug cabinet stuffed with every kind of psychotropic drugs that exists; all pills are prescribed to kids who are no longer in the Program. Margaret encounters Rusty \_\_\_\_, the garbageman, taking a smoke break on Dr. Hazey's heated steps and when he leaves a coil of sausage skin behind, she leaps off the ground like it's a snake.

**Lydia Waits for Stand Up Sex with James in the Bath Tub**

In the chaos following Rachel's epileptic fit, Lydia hides out in the bathroom so she can have sex with James to avoid flying apart when she meets her mother who just flew in to Idaho in the family Lear jet. James shows up discombobulated and upset at witnessing Rachel's loss of consciousness. He refuses to perform for Lydia. She flies into a rage at James for being a limp dick so she slaps James silly. He slaps her back by dumping her.

**Dr. Hazey Tries to Resist The Siren Call of His Bottom Left Drawer**

Dr. Hazey has to be sharp for two important meetings Monday morning; he has to convince Lydia's mother to extend Lydia's stay at the Program to retain the girl's signifiant fees and he truly wants to be present for OG's therapy session because he is finally making progress against OG's hopeless despair. When he realizes he's wearing mismatched shoes, all his good intentions fly out the window as his left bottom drawer calls out to him with its siren song.

**OG Bonds with Rachel Before She Runs**

After working together to save the moose, Rachel's need to talk complications OG's escape plan. OG's unfamiliar sense of hope and accomplishment allows her to open up to Rachel instead of shutting down her attempt at friendship, her usual reaction to any form of connection. Rachel confesses to OG how she accidentally got pregnant and gave birth to a baby boy but was tricked by her own during labor to to give the baby away for adoption. When Rachel asks about OG's family, OG mutely points to her side of the room devoid of pictures in comparison to Rachel's wall of family and friends. Rachel understands that OG is running, so she raids all her pockets for cash she's stashed away.. She hands OG a wad of money to fund her escape but extorts a pinkie swear out of OG that she won't kill herself tonight. At Lights Out, while Charlee is doing her inspections, OG sneaks out of the room and drugs Charlene's cocoa with all the Benadryl she's been saving up.

**OG Conscripts Rachel and James Into Helping Her Rescue a Drowning Moose**

Weeks of blizzards have postponed Outdoor Activity Day for three weeks, so all the Healing House patients are squarely and itching to be allowed outside. On the deafening hubbub on the drive north to the trailhead, Lydia gets James in trouble for putting her hands in his pants and she's confined to the far back AKA Barfland with OG. The van meets up with Darlene on her way back from taking Rachel to the Kootenai Hospital. Josh exchanges Rachel who's been cleared for normal activities, to punish Lydia who gets sent back to Healing House.

At the trailhead, Josh gives James permission to lead the fit group of snowshoers while Josh, a Senior Therapist, herds the slowpokes who are still struggling to strap on their gear. James, Rachel and OG. Are dying to finally get a real work out, so they set off at a fast pace and reach the lake far ahead of the pack. They discover a bull moose who has fallen through the ice and is swimming in circles in the frigid lake. Everybody wants to save the stranded creature, especially OG who can't bear to experience yet another death, so she concocts a crazy idea to break a channel through the ice to allow the moose to escape. James and Rachel think OG's idea is nuts but when she threatens to jump in the lake with the moose, they decide to work together. OG uses a memory of a trip to the Smithsonian where she and her dad saw a diorama of the Nez Perce Indian tribe fleeing with all their goods from the army and decides to build a facsimile of an Indian travois to transport rocks to break the ice. A deadfall from the creek supplies the alder poles they use to tie James's waterproof jacket to and they create a carrier that works to pile up a load to rocks. To everyone's surprise --- especially OG's--- this crazy idea works. With James superior upper body strength, OG and Rachel lever the rocks to the ice edge and they learn to work the weight back and forth so the edge breaks away. It takes a lot of hard work but they succeed in cutting a rough and narrow opening a short distance to the shore. Then they are stymied when the stupid moose won't enter the channel. OG gets so mad at the dumb beast, she throws a rock and whacks the moose in one antler. The frightened moose finally moves into the channel as all three of them wave their arms and scream and throw ice and rocks at it till its feet hit bottom and it walks ashore. The moose shakes a cascade of water droplets off like a dog and the movement loosens a thundering fart at the same time as one antler falls off. Rachel, James and OG erupt in a wild dance of joy and join in a backslapping group hug as the moose evaporates into the wilderness. The huge is abruptly interrupted by the arrival of the group of slowpokes who witness OG, James and Rachel jumping away from each other as if they were caught having group sex.

**James Gets to Know Rachel Better on the Two Mouth Hike**

The issue is how to shorten the action to Two Mouth Lake scene/travois building and get Rachel and James on board with OG's brainstorm.

(What if)

The sky is its usual color of cement when OG starts out for Outdoor Activity Day in the back of the van. All she can think about is how to use the glass shard in the pocket of her coat to cut her throat. Darlene hails the van on Highway 95 on her way back from taking Rachel to the Hospital. Thee two therapists decide to let Rachel go on the snowshoe and they punish Lydia by sending her back to Healing House and the sky opens up to a promising blue by the time they reach the Two Mouth Lake trail head. .

(What if?) Lydia gets separated from James and gets sent to sit in Barfland with OG for inappropriate touching. The van driven by Josh, the Senior Therapist, meets up with Darlene who is taking Rachel back to Healing House after being checked out at the hospital. Josh decides to reward Rachel with the hike and ton punish Lydia for putting her hands down James's pants. Because it's late, Josh allows James to lead the fast-and-fit group and he stays behind with the slow pokes and nooobs who can't even buckle their straps tight enough to stay on.

At Two Mouth Lake, OG, James and Rachel encounter a moose who has broken through the ice at the lake. It looks like it has been swimming in circles for hours. OG can't bear the idea of leaving the moose to drown so she conscripts James and Rachel to help with her crazy idea she has for breaking a channel in the ice. James doesn't want to help because it's a stupid idea but when OG threatens to jump in the water with the moose, James donates his expensive jacket and starts collecting rocks while Rachel finds two relatively straight alder poles in a pile of deadfall. OG sets about building a makeshift travois like the Indian version she saw on a visiting ago to the Smithsonian with her dad. To everybody's surprise, OG's invention works and with a lot of huffing and hauling and sweating, they break a narrow channel a short distance to the-flowing water at the creek.

**Lydia Fills Up, Empties Out, and Gets Asked on a Coffee Date**

Lydia is so upset at James's defection that she skips sociology class at NICC and instead hangs out in the Student Union Building where, she tries to exchange a blow job for enough money to buy a donuts to binge. She gets turned down a burly man-boy with a clownish red beard who turns out to be a Mormon who is saving himself for marriage. She assumes he's gay but he gives her a pile of spare change to buy the donuts anyway. Lyda hoovers down all dozen donuts behind the building, then throws them back up in twenty minutes. When she comes back inside for water to rinse the vomit out of her mouth, the Mormon dude introduces himself as Lorenzo and asks her out if she'd like to go on a coffee date. When he asks her if she got enough donuts, she straightens out as if assisted by cattle prod and brings the box squished under her arm carefully level, as if it is still holding the freshly sugared donuts while they speak, instead of steaming away her stomach warmth behind the dumpster.

**Lydia Punishes Herself**

At Lights Out, when the temperature outside huddles around -6 degrees, Lydia removes all the covers and sheets from her bed and opens the window. She strips naked, turns off the light and lies down on mattress ticking to watch the waxing moon crawl across the ceiling as she atones for all her bad behavior: for slapping James, for stealing \$20 from Darlene's purse, for putting her hands down James's pants to get him in trouble, for telling her mother to fuck off . She watches the fog of her breath, listens to the chatter of her teeth, sees her skin go from goosebumps to a dusky blue while a frigid draft makes the night seem like an eternity. The one solace she allows herself is picking through her mind for matching underwear and outfits shel might wear to tomorrow's coffee date.

**Rachel Gets Locked Out of Healing House and Rusty Harrow Watches Her Pee**

Rusty makes his weekly garbage run to pick up personal trash at Doc Hazey's house, then circles back to the Doc's loony bin which is only a few driveways before his piece-of-shiit trailer at Harrow Dump which he's been running since his piece-of-even-more-shit dad croaked. In the driveway at Healing House, Rusty loads a can after can of worthless shit from the nut house---they never have anything good---and he's wishing to hell he had a shot gun to shoot all the god-damn raccoons who pried the tops off the bins and strewed garbage around from hell to breakfast in the driveway. He's scooping up mildewed coffee grounds and and lettuce slime and food scraps with his bare hands cause he can't find his gloves and Piss Ant Margaret O'Leary who he went to grade school with and should be nicer to him, already, told him twice she'd fire his ass if he didn't pick up all garbage around the garbage, not just the cans. He hears a door slam in the distance and watches a tall black girl dart around the corner in a tee shirt and underpants before she suddenly squats in the bushes to pee. She's just pulling up white bikini underwear over the best ass he's ever seen while leaving a yellow puddle at her feet like a dog when he says hello and she jumps about a mile and screams in surprise. He follows behind her to tell her didn't see nothing except her bare ass, when Margaret O'Leary, opens the front door and says, "Rusty Harrow, what the hell are you doing chasing one of our girls?" The beautiful black girl is wearing a tee shirt that barely covers her butt with a Stockman's Bar logo and the words, "Liquor up front. Poker in the rear." He sees the message on the back of the shirt and realizes he's fallen in love.

**James Struggles to Write His Accountability Letter**

Inner Horizons has all kinds of idiotic rules but the dumbest is the rule that says nothing can be repaired unless you own up to it. James perseverates in his room and writes half truths and erases even the half-assed ones for hours on end while he's working on the his third---or is it his fourth?---letter that accounts to Mom and Dad of all the shit he pulled before they gave up and sent him to fucking Youdahoe for treatment. The problem is that James himself barely remembers all the shit he was responsible for, especially after he started bumping up his week consumption with bumps of cocaine to wake him up and Ecstasy to mellow him out and benzos to help him sleep and hits of vodka and Red Bull to get his ass out of bed for basketball practice. What he's really supposed to be confessing is how he lost his mind the night he crashed his car in Topango Canyon and walked home and left somebody he didn't know to die in his front seat. He tries to dredge up who it was and why he left but the effort is too fucking painful and what good is it when you can't bring anyone back anyway? He is supposed to read the full confession that includes the half-assed to the harrowing to the heinous from beginning to end but he hangs up on his parents because they start asking questions before he gets through half of the half-assed ones. Josh, his therapist, says he'll start over again next week.

**BEFORE**

**OG Acts to Save Esty and Saves Herself**

Tensions are running high the day of a severe blizzard when OG has to stop work on her *Animal House* paper for some *Lord of the Flies* action. With only Gretchen and Darlene to supervise all the patients at Healing House, everybody is herded into the living room and before the day is gone, the wolf pack turns squirrelly with frustration and deviltry. When Esty gets dropped off from two weeks at Stabilization stinky from not bathing and drugged up to the gills with antipsychotics, OG thwarts a mean spirited game of withholding food from the food-obsessed girl; OG holds down Reza's hand so Esty can throw all her considerable weight into stabbing him with his own fork. OG, flushed with her success at fighting for someone else, feeds her hunger for agency by grinding Dani's face into Margaret's home made pie. She's never felt so satisfied.

**OG Smells Smoke but Gets Left Out in the Cold**

Once again, OG can't sleep so she stays up late treading [Fire Next Time]{.underline} and when she realizes her eyes are itchy, she figures out that she smells smoke. OG runs down the Girl's Wing and the Boys Wing, screaming to wake the dead of Healing House, then rouses a sleepy Margaret from her guilty catnap on the couch. Margaret calls the Kootenai Fire Department before she seals off the firedoor to the Girl's Wing where the smoke is coming from. Margaret hands out coats from the front closet to all the residents of Healing House who are freezing their butts off in the yard in their pajamas. OG gets only a thin windbreaker, and deathly cold as they wait for the fire engine and the rag tag band of volunteers to show up. When they finally arrive, the firemen swarm the roof of the Girl[']{dir="rtl"}s Wing and hose down the area above the laundry room where the fire got its start. OG spots James and Rachel huddled under the quilt James pulled off his bed but she can[']{dir="rtl"}t bring herself to ask if she can share their warmth. Lydia has no such compunction, so she wiggles in with between James and Rachel, leaving OG out in the cold. The night gets worse f when a great horned owl swoops in and snatches the Snoopy hat Gabe used to wear from OG's head. One of the firefighters on a ladder spots a DayGlo pink raccoon at the top of a tree nearby. Everybody below starts to ooh and ahhh as more firefighters ply their flashlights over the trees like klieg lights. A startling array of raccoons in irradiated colors set up hissing and yowling from the trees. Only OG knows that Margaret is the one who planted neon blooms in the nighttime with her paintball war on the raccoons who keep getting into the garbage. The sight fills with her a kind of awe she will never forget. It also distracts her from the loss of the Snoopy hat which Margaret will discover discarded in the driveway when she comes in to work the next day.

**James Wonders Why a Firefighter Wants to Stab Him**

Trying to keep warm in the birthday quilt from Mom that James rescued from his bed, he witnesses a feral looking fireman on a fire line glaring at him like James started the fire. James asks Rachel if she knows the guy but when she says no, he tells her that the guy knows her.

**Rusty is Pissed that the Fire is a Washout**

**TOMORROW**

**James Helps Margaret Show Ned Simplot the Power of the Purse**

A rodeo girl in James's English Lit class who's not bad looking asks James if he wants to smoke a joint in the NICC parking lot. James, who has sworn to quit, is just about to partake at the moment Margaret drives up in the van like a heat seeking missile. Before he can inhale, Margaret hauls James away from Candy Tremptor's kind of temptation. Minutes later, Margaret goes ballistic when she spots Lydia on her knees in Ned Simplot's truck with her head bobbing up and down. Margaret pulls Lydia out of Ned's tricked out truck and Ned retaliates by threatening Margaret and Lydia with an aluminum bat that James manages to wrestle from him and toss away. Margaret embarrasses the crap out of Ned by beating the bejesus out of him with her felted purse which holds a heavy pipe wrench she intends to use on a plugged sink. Ned drops to his knees. Margaret wheels out of the parking lot with her charges like a race car driver and inadvertently rolls over Ned's Louisville Slugger. He shakes the bat at the van like a weapon and shouts: "You think you can fuck with me? I'ma fuck you two up."

**Margaret Teaches Lydia and James to Change a Gasket**

In Margaret's continuing mission to teach her kids life survival skills, she starts with the perpetually leaking faucets in the Men's Bathroom. Lydia surprises Margaret by being a quick study and good with her hands though James has to supply the muscle because the girl has the grip strength of a kitten. She teaches them how to pull a faucet and makes the principle sink in by making them pull the non-leaky faucets too, and clean the ancient, gunky traps. Flushed with success, Lydia shocks the hell out of Margaret by thanking her for the less. Maybe there's hope for the spoiled rich kid yet. She's not surprised when James thanks her because somebody raised him right.

**Jed Kidnaps Lydia to Teach Her a Lesson**

For the first time, Lydia arrives early at the NICC van pickup place to prove to Margaret she's making an effort. No one is around to see Ned stalk her in his pickup track and wrestle her into the back of the cab with the help of his mechanic friend, Frankie. Ned zipties Lydia and leaves her hogtied in the cab while he and Frankie get drunk at the Wolf Creek Bar. They're lit up like Christmas lights when they come back and Ned decides to drive Lydia up a unplowed road to the shooting range because he wants to do some target practice. Ned takes out his mad on Lydia with a vicious beating until Frankie distracts him with an Ecstasy he's been saving "for an emergency." The cocktail of tequila and Ecstasy soon has Ned baying at the moon and singing "I Love You Like a Wrecking Ball" when they take off and leave her alone to walk downhill to civilization. Frankie manages to distract Ned and gives Lydia his boots and zips her into his snow jacket and Ned drives off shouting she can fuck any cougar she sees now that they're even.

**Lydia Meets a Cougar and Her Fate on the Walk Downhill**

Lydia is punch drunk. She can't hear out of one ear and something is wrong with her kidneys and her balance when she sees Ned and Frankie roar out of the shooting range in a cloud exhaust, hooting like coyotes. It's cold because she's missing her pants but the snow is silver bright in the full moon. Lydia tries to keep Frankie's advice to keep walking but his boots are too large and she keeps slipping and falling while she trudges in Ned's tire tracks towards I-90. She keeps listing toward the hill slope and having to recorrect so she doesn't fall off the road. Each time she goes down, it's harder to get up. In the purple shadows around one bend, she startles a cougar feeding on a rabbit and it growls at her with a pile of entrails hanging from its mouth too protect its meal. By this time, she's exhausted and hurting and it seems so much easier to be prey than a predator, the next time her boot slips off, she lets herself sink into a snow well at the base of a Ponderosa that only a foot below the edge of the road. She settles in with her knees pulled up to her chest in fetal position where she can sleep until spring when she remembers the glacier lilies start to bloom. Car lights pass on the road above her resting place and she doesn't realize Frankie has ditched Ned and come back to get her.

**OG Escapes from Healing House and Tries to Feed a Coyote's Kits**

OG's plan to drug Charlene with Benadryl works beautifully and she shuts the kitchen door at Healing House right on schedule at just past midnight. It's cold but not unbearable since she's bundled up in James's brand new Arctic Explorer jacket that she's cadged from the front closet and left her signed author's copy of Geek Love in payment. She walks down Harrow Road on her way to catch a ride south on I-95 with the full moon lighting her way. It's a clear night with a wheeling galaxy of stars close enough to touch. She walks for several hours and only is only a mile from I-95, when she has to ice-skate down Harrow Hill to avoid falling. She can see all the SLOW-SLOW-SLOW signs above the snow piled up to neon letters that warn of the blind left turn up ahead. In the far distance across the mostly flat fields, she spots the glare of headlights on the road she's been walking for hours. She's tired. She wonders if this plan ilike all her others is a stupid idea and she sits down in the road to think. She's gazes up at the stars above and then lies flat on her back, wondering how it is that Mom and Dad and Gabe can be with her on this icy road rhis minute, and also exist above her in the wheeling galaxies of stars. at the same time. She hears a rasp of fabric over ice more than she feels the sharp jerk of the backpack on the move. Startled, she sits up again and the pack at her feet jerks about a foot away from her. A scraggly, worse-for-wear coyote has its fangs in the strap she just took off her shoulder. The bag continues to jerk- drag backward with everything she owns, including Margaret's ham sandwich and cookies, down the road. She bolts upright and shouts "Hey!" But the coyote crouches and won't let go of the bag. In its position on the ground, OG can see that the coyote has teats distended with milk which means it has to kits to feed. High beams abruptly light up the road on top of the hill top that OG had to slip-and-slide down. The lights speed closer and suddenly the coyote is running full speed toward the berm and OG runs after it but feels the drag of a cold wind that lift her hat flaps and her dreads when a large dark mass flies overhead. A tremendous crash sets off an avalanche of snow and an ear-splitting crack in the Ponderosa grove that lines the corner right before the blind turn.

**OG Walks Rusty Up to the Exit and Doesn't Follow**

OG races up and over the road-side snow berm and finds an ancient green truck that's smashed headfirst into a large Ponderosa at the turn. OG climbs through the busted front window and discovers that the smashed engine has pushed the steering column into the chest of the man who was driving. There's garbage all over, inside and out, and beer bottles broken all over. The man is still alive but he's bleeding from the chest wound and there's no way to save him without help. The man begs her to stay with him because it's getting dark and she realizes he's going to die with no help possible. He grips onto her hand to keep her with him except she thinks maybe he's holding on to keep himself in this world while he slowly struggles to catch his breath. It's nearly 4 am when the black night she's lived through starts to turn night blue when the dying man turns dusky blue and takes his final inhale. OG is so tired, she contemplates going to sleep in the cold with him, but her adrenaline is pumping and she re-enters the land of the living by climbing backwards out of the narrow space of the smashed in cab. Her escape plan has gone to shit; it's nearly 4:30 AM by the time the night blue sky shifts to the dawn's baby blanket blue. OG keeps on walking because what else is there to do? Before she heads out, she unwraps her cookies and ham sandwich and leaves the food to feed the coyote and her kits.

**OG Lights Out for the Territories By Way of the Whoopy Cushion**

Thanks to the friendly Smith Brothers milk man who turns out to be a well-wrapped milk lady, OG gets a ride to the McDonald's in Coeur D'Alene that's only two blocks to an entrance to I-90. Her toes come painfully back to life first as her feet warm up and she encounters Lydia's friend, Lorenzo, who recognizes her.. Lorenzo tells OG to tell Lydia he sold her cat bag for "real money" but OG can't tell him she will never see Lydia again because she's on her way to Seattle. Fortified by Lorenzo's gift of hot coffee, OG gifts a lift toward Seattle by friendly husband-and-wife team of truck drivers who are transporting live chickens. Carly, the wife, is the talker while Ken silently drives, OG tells her that her name is Angela, though they called me Old Girl where I used to live." Carly delights in introducing Angela to the wonders of Ken's Whoopy cushion which works wonders for hemorrhoids and just as good as a pillow when Angela is finally left in peace to crack open James's copy of Huckleberry Finn. She turns to the last page like she always does with every book so she doesn't get hijacked by a tragedy, and says to herself, Good, he survives.

**Margaret Sends Up Prayers for Her Charges and Asks for Blessings**

Margaret wakes up at 4 AM on the dot in a full blown menopausal sweat. She gets up to go to the bathroom and hears sirens scream in the distance and her thoughts immediately go to Lydia who didn't show up at the NICC pick-up stop at 4 PM. Margaret herself reported her missing and asked the sheriff to put out an APB. According to the Healing House grapevine, everyone assumes Lydia's absence is just a garden-variety run attempt in a Program where 99% of runners are caught within 48-hours and return with their tails between their legs to start at square one in the rules department, which means mandatory six months lock-down. Margaret is uneasy so she sends up a heartfelt prayer for Lydia's safety while she boils milk for a hot cocoa and let's Barkley-the-Always-Barking mutt out to pee and sniff for skunks. The dog takes his time as the sky brightens to night-blue, so Margaret continues to pray, first for her own kids, and then for the ones she worries about more, like Reza and James and Big Paul and OG, her personal favorite, who seems to be more accepting these days that life has to go on despite all its losses. Margaret sends up blessings as she always does for everybody she loves and cares about on this important day of her new life, adds one personal request that she hopes is OK with God, because she needs Him to be with her tomorrow morning at 9 am when she confronts Dr. Hazey with her knowledge of his creative prescription writing. If God is good, and all knowing and omnipotent, as she knows He is, He will bless her idea that Hazey's recreational habits will remain their little secret as long as Dr. Hazey increases Margaret's salary to the Director level; provides full health care and disability benefits; approves her taking over the duties of Director of Healing House; and moves Gretchen out of her hair into Admin as Nutrition Manager by end-of-day.
