---
uid: 01KAGVXH02H7PTG8M8Y58RKK59
project: you-da-hoe
source_file: 093014 fork.docx
converted_date: '2025-11-24T17:17:49.482430'
wordcount: 1076
version: 1
---

093014 fork\
\
I\'m writing about the bullying of lardy ass Esty. Old Girl is generally on the fence at healing house. She wants to die so the last thing she has room for other petty drama is an power struggles that are the battleground of the treatment program. The scene goes at midpoint because it\'s climax is Old Girl choosing a side.\
\
Up to that point girl has been vaguely nice to ST. Not an enemy, just not actively working against her. Earlier in the story the reader has seen her put off her roommate Rachel who wants to get to know Old Girl but OG resists or pulls back because she can\'t afford to be friends when she\'s pulling into herself like A self-suffocating turtle.\
\
By the time Estie gets out of stabilization, OG has made a plan to run in the middle of the night. She stockpiled Benadryl to knock out the night person Charlene.\
\
She\'s biding her time in the don\'t-get-involved-sense in at the beginning of the bullying seen, she is just watching Danny and Rezza torment ST and she\'s not taking a side. As the scene builds intention, OG feels drawn to poke ST herself, the fat girl is behaving like an onboard ship, a large in animate thing that lets herself be steered and poked and prodded by the board and mean spirited Danny. Danny wants to demonstrate her superiority and to lorded over everybody because she\'s getting out, not because she\'s learned anything. She has manipulated the staff into thinking she\'s \"better.\" Better at being worse, OG thanks, because she\'s on to Danny by the end of the scene.\
\
The object in the scene is the dinner for. What\'s the significance of a fork? It pokes and prods like Danny and Rezza poking and jabbing at her when they called her \"peewee\" and \"stink ass.\"\
\
At the dinner table, when they orchestrate the crew game that isolates Estie from the food platters that are being passed away from her, Esty sat in front of an empty plate with her fork in one hand and a butter knife in the other. There\'s was only emptiness and want on Esty's plate. Nothing to stick a fork into. Esty started waving her hands like she had forgotten the eating implements in her big paws. The fork clattered away from her in her distress. It slipped off the plate and did a kind of somersault and swan dive to the orange rug where its stuck tines down in the weave.

OG bends over in the middle of the argument. The point where she read or is ST with the fork is the moment that she chooses her side.\
\
While Esty sat like a lump of lard, her shoulder s slumped, one hand on her butter knife and the other on her fork, it looked like she'd being going hungry her whole life.

Old Girl emphatically threw herself off the fence by leaning down and grabbing the fork by the handle. She handed it to Esty, saying, \"Feed your self, dammit!\" OG says. \"Nobody\'s going to do it for you.\"\
\
Esty looked at Old Girl and then she turned her attention tot the fork as if it's true nature had just been revealed to her. Maybe it was the way Old Girl handed it to her: she extended it not by the handle but by the tines, the way you'd give it to someone if you wanted them to throw it.

Old Girl had no idea what it was that Esty saw. Not an eating implement, surely. Not some bland aluminum utensil that lived a safe and boring life in the dessert drawer. This wasn't a pie fork. This was a meat fork with sharp and shiny tines.

Estie's eyes took in the tines, the way the overhead light honed the edges and polished its sharpness. Old Girl wasn't Esty makes me sick. If they weren't already picking on her, Old Girl would have slapped her.

surprised when Estie took the fork by the shaft and impaled Rezza in the meaty part of his hand.

Purpose of the scene is to get OG off the fence. It's a scene of reverSal. She starts the scene not wanting to get involved, then as Estie sits like a lump of Jello and just quivers when Danny and Rezza and Paul poke at her, OG starts to unthaw from her frozen perch. She gets mad at Estie who is twice the size of the feral ferret that is Rezza and weighs 70 pounds more than Danny. She joins in the taunting before dinner, saying "Estie is piss-poor at holding her water" and she gets an easy laugh. Thjen when the game gets meaner at dinner, OG feels nauseated like she wants to empty out her stomach and get rid of the taste of rue. Then when Estie raises up her big bulk after being tauned to her breaking point, it's OG who spots the dropped fork that has landed tines down in the shag.

"Here," she says, handing the fork to Estie by the shaft. "You'll need this to feed yourself" and she doesn't mean that the good if what's going to be served.d Estie takes the fork and stabs down as hard as she can into Reza's hand.

In the aftermath, with Estie laying over Rezza's torso, holding him down, while Darlene and Gretchen try to pull her off him, OG feels the stirring of hunger, something she hasn't felt in a long time.

It was clear that dinner was over. The celebratory dessert? Officially toast. Old Girl figured she'd have to go hungry till breakfast. She picked up an armful of dirty dishes and hip-butted the swinging kitchen door so she could stack them on the kitchen counter next to the sink.

To her surprise, Danny was in the kitchen ahead of her, Hoovering in big bites of lemon meringue pie.

"That's for everybody!" she cried who had a dollop of whipped cream on her lip.

"It's mine, "Danny said. "For graduating early."

"Graduated? You manipulated your way out of here."

"So?"

"So get your face out of that pie and leave some for the rest of us."

"Make me," Danny said with her mouth full. And that's when Old Girl pushed her face down into lemon custard and felt more satisfied than she had in her life.
