---
uid: 01KAGW7K27EPXSDXF7VC3SQRHF
project: you-da-hoe
source_file: 10-31-2013 Objects.docx
converted_date: '2025-11-24T12:23:24.840236'
wordcount: 710
version: 1
---

10/31/2013

Objects

Junker\'s objects are the weird half monster - half human creatures he makes. It\'s like a Frankenstein fascination. He sees a claw or a shaving brush or a pointed, cylindrical shell and it calls out to him to be a leg or a head or a penis. It\'s a form of entertainment and \_\_\_\_ creating these worried and damaged creatures who are indexes for his own fractured self. He makes a doll woman for the girl at the lock-down place. It\'s an offering, like a wedding gift, he puts on her pillow. He\'s making one for himself, a bridegroom, and he\'s going to deliver it to her room the day he plans to kill her. Everything is ready. A bed. A toothbrush that he washed in a bottle of \_\_\_ he found. A \_\_\_\_ of blouses and pants and shirts he\'s been collecting for years.

James\' object used to be his red Corvette. It\'s now a hunk of crumpled fiberglass broken \_\_\_\_ weight pieces that literally flew apart when he crashed, \_\_\_\_ the car \_\_\_\_\_ to him was made of cardboard and paste. In his dreams he still sees shattered parts, red on one side, fibrous yellow and shaggy at the edges on the other when you can see how fiberglass threads have been pasted into a fragile warp and weft.

Old Girl has a backpack that she\'s never without. When she picks up the night she plans to escape, it has Travis Tritt and George Jones and T-Bone \_\_\_\_, a blues howler that makes her feel like there's somebody in the Mississippi delta who feels her pain. What on the outside of the pack? It\'s a Hello Kitty backpack. It was a Xmas present from her mom when she was 10, so it\'s too small for her but she can\'t give it up. The kitty is half worn off and Margaret is always bugging her to let her soak it in Spray-n-Wash to get the gray caked-in dirt off. It used to be pink and purple and now it\'s as gray as she feels her in her heart. Old, tattered, frayed at the edges \-- she had to sew up a corner recently when a pen fell out of it. The older it gets and the dirtier, the more she likes it. By the time she offs herself, she hopes Hello Kitty will be completely erased and only she will know her epitaph was Goodbye Hope.

Lydia has a very expensive designer bag. Prada? Ferragamo? Furla? Bottega? Or is it a Judith Lieber beaded bag that looks as out of place in Idaho as a Rolls Royce. Every other girl at N. Idaho Community College caries Juicy bags and Lydia, always put together like a fashion plate, minces along with a beaded and sequined bag that cost more than most of them make in a year at Target.

It\'s a cat, a Cheshire cat with a white toothed, diamond-studded smile, that she stole from her mother\'s closet. She idly wondered if her mother ever misses it \-- probably not since she had a collection of them to augment an impressive array of Badgley Mischkas and Bottega Venetas and Pradas.

Once Lydia made the mistake of saying to Old Girl, \"Hey, I\'ve got a kitty purse, too.\" Old Girl set the scuffed and worn Hello Kitty pack next to her shiny grinning cat purse. It looked even dirtier and bedraggled next to the Judith Lieber bling. \"Oh look what the cat drug in,\" Old Girl said. \"A dead kitty.\"

Lydia stopped carrying it with her when she and Old Girl took the same shuttle to school. the only reason she had it on her today was because Old Girl was stuck in Isolation for her latest attempt to kill herself.

Reza wears ear muffs he\'s cleverly turned into radio receivers. They\'re forbidden to wear ear buds because music is the devil\'s workshop or some such horse shit according to the therapists. If you sit next to him you\'ll catch a tinny \_\_\_\_ buzz emanating from him like he\'s ambushed by a cloud of bees. No wonder they think the therapists are dumber than fence posts if they can\'t figure out that Reza is rocking out to Sound Garden.
