---
uid: 01KAGWC12QYF9TKEGK7THC82GJ
project: you-da-hoe
source_file: 11-11-2013 No Title.docx
converted_date: '2025-11-24T12:22:12.164265'
wordcount: 716
version: 1
---

11/11/2013

No Title

Margaret positions herself as fun loving, always up for a joke, easy to be around, the funny one. She\'s afraid to show her lack of a degree \-- she\'s big on common sense, knows its valuable but still underneath she\'s embarrassed she\'d dropped out of high school and doesn\'t like to admit she doesn\'t have a degree. She hates people who lie, can\'t countenance Dr. Hazey\'s big certificates hanging on the wall when she\'s looked him up and can\'t find any record of his degrees. She hates the fact that he\'s an intellectual snob, hiding behind big words and colorful diagnoses, and labels that put a box like a coffin around a kid. What she most admires are doers. People who accomplish things on their own merit. \"Do anything for somebody else every day\" is tacked up above her kitchen sink at home. She got a big butt and she\'s \_\_\_ if embarrassed about it.

Fear drives her character to create the mask.

Margaret is afraid that people will find out she didn\'t finish high school. She wants people to think she\'s competent and she can\'t bear that people will think she\'s uneducated and stupid. She reads a lot, yes, a lot of romances but she also likes history.

She\'s afraid she won\'t be able to support her family if the kids find out she\'s uneducated and doesn\'t have a degree. She knows it\'s wrong but she lets everybody believe she\'s got a degree and applies for the registered dietician\'s certification, even though she has to make up the credentials.

Margaret fears not being able to make ends meet.

Margaret\'s strong common sense and street smarts and chutzpah (balls o\'brass, she likes to say) make her an asset at the treatment program.

Margaret\'s got a big mouth. She can\'t help calling people on their bull shit even if they have a degree from Harvard or Princeton or fucking Dartmouth. \"Dart mouth,\" Hazey corrects her and if she had a baseball bat to hand, she would have cold-cocked him, it made her so mad.

Margaret has a bit heart. When her common sense and street smarts don\'t work, she doesn\'t hesitate to lie to keep her job and get the job she really wants.

She has a strong sense of right and wrong. She hates people who lie. And yet, when push comes to shove, with Hazey, she lies about her credentials.

Donald Maas/ Character

Character has to have a want and a goal.

What outward event would symbolize the inner transformation?

She bests Hazey, the intellectual peanut with degrees up the kazoo and she realizes her own lack of credentials in the academic world mean nothing in the real world.

Write down three defining qualities? 1) Margaret is street smart with a shit load of common sense. 2) Margaret is funny and quick on her feet with a smart-ass comment. She surprises people with her sass. 3) Margaret\'s heart is as big as the lady with the alligator purse. Anybody and everybody whatever color and creed, can fit.

Margaret gets in trouble for opening her big yap. She gets a warning from her superior \-- gets put on notice which is the same as the kids getting their check marks \-- and she has to shut up and find a work-around.

What is it that her character wants most and can you imagine a point when Margaret wants the opposite?

Margaret most wants the job and the security of the cook who\'s paid at the scale of a registered dietician with benefits. For Margaret not to want this job, Margaret would have to want to lay down in the road.

What\'s one thing your character would never say? You\'re stupid and worthless.

What\'s one thing Margaret would never do? Margaret would never shame a kid.

What\'s one thing your character would never think? Margaret would never think someone, especially a kid, is hopeless or worthless.

Is there a time in the story where Margaret does any of the above? Margaret loses her temper and shames Old Girl for always thinking about herself and being fixated on suicide.

\"The moment comes when a character does something you hadn\'t thought about. At that moment, he\'s alive and you can leave it to him.\"

Graham Greene
