---
uid: 01KAGVQACHX08KYED8CB83887M
project: you-da-hoe
source_file: 11-25-2013_Midpoint.doc
converted_date: '2025-11-24T12:27:15.629170'
wordcount: 1172
version: 1
---

11/25/2013\
Midpoint

Usually Group was an experience of mid-numbing boredom for Old Girl. She\'d been in treatment so long it was like she\'d heard every sob story, every self-delusion and lie the people in the program told themselves. She\'d heard the therapists mirror the teller\'s feelings so often she could do it in her sleep.

Which is why she was unaccountably mesmerized by the Group Grope the day after the snow cave nearly took her out.

Rosa asked Reza to read his accountability statement first. Old Girl had tried to sit in her usual spot, the chair everybody fought over that she liked to drag behind the couch, so she could stare out the windows and daydream while the shit went down.

\"None of that,\" Rosa said to her. \"On the couch today. Reza has something he wants to say to you.\"

Reza had the expression of a prisoner in front of the parole board, if the prisoner weighed 120 pounds and had a case of ants in his pants.

He read from a much crumpled piece of paper in a halting, husky voice. \"Didn\'t think\...wasn\'t paying attention\...never meant\...horsing around ...,\" Old Girl only caught one word in five because Reza\'s voice tightened and stammered as he tried to breathe and talk at the same time. She was staring at him trying to make out what he was saying, when she felt a corresponding tightness in her own chest.

Oh holy shit. Reza kept blinking like he was fighting back tears and Old Girl felt a matching heat and scratchiness in her eyes. Shit on a stick, this isn\'t going to turn into a cry fest, is it? The last thing she heard Reza say in a strangled voice was \"So sorry.\"

He lunged from the opposite couch and threw his skinny arms around her and before she knew it, everybody was joining in a group hug, like it was a horrible football scrum. Etsy was pounding Reza on the back and Old Girl could feel her friendly blows through Reza\'s body, while Etsy seemed torn between congratulating him and killing him.

Everybody started talking at once about their part in the rescue.

James said \"I\'ve never shoveled snow faster in my life.\"

\"Do you know how hard it is to dig snow with nothing but your bare hands?\" That was Rachel.

\"Josh screamed out 'Old Girl\'s gonna die under there' and we all went crazy,\" Manuela, who used to be Manuel a year ago, said.

Everybody at Group wanted her to know how hard they fought for her. Old Girl had been blissfully in the dark, pressed down by what felt like a hundred tons of snow so she had no idea what they\'d gone through to get her out. People were showing off their hand scrapes and broken nails. \"It was easier to scoop without my fucking gloves but by the time we found your jacket, my hands were totally numb.\" Rachel again.

Old Girl had been in plenty of Group sessions where people cried and she thought she was inured to it. Somebody was always losing it, either with shame or grief or rage. But she had been able to build up her own snow cave around her inner self. Now it felt like all those bodies furiously digging and shoveling with their hands and feet, were threatening the foundations of those walls.

When she tried to extricate herself from all that body heat, yet another person would touch her touch her hair or pat her back as if they were trying to reassure themselves that she was still alive.

Normally she was able to turn her internal temperature to minus-40 in Group. That\'s how she survived all the emotions that made it a snake pit. Now she was so hot, she was sweating.

The last time they\'d taken everybody to North Star to snow board, she\'d dropped a glove and it was so cold on the chair lift the pinkie on her bare hand had began to freeze. When she went into to warm up in the Lodge, the pinkie finger came down with a terrible case of pins and needles. Hundreds of sharp pricking points that hurt so bad she could barely breathe.

In the bathroom, when she\'d hurled herself out of the scrum it felt like the needles were back. Her heart was being poked by a thousands surgically sharpened points that made her long for the old deep freeze even though she knew she couldn\'t go back.

Food Fight Scene

\"No! Not spinach again!\" Ben, the whiner who\'d only been at the program for a month, flicked the limp pile of leaves off his plate onto the tabletop.

Gretchen who dropping a shriveled over baked yam onto Rachel\'s plate said, \"Put that back on your plate. First warning.\"

Ben glared at her and left the spinach like a gauntlet where it lay.

Then Omar, who was sitting next to Ben, scraped his spinach off his plate. Another gauntlet.

Gretchen said evenly, \'Second warning, Ben. First warning, Omar.\"

All twelve people at the dining table were riveted on the spinach.

Rachel uncertainly took a bite of the limp greens avoiding a cherry tomato that beamed like a transit light. Unfortunately it was slimy and it made her gag. She spit the bite out, intending to hit the plate, but the glop of masticated spinach plopped onto the table. Not a gauntlet. More like a gob stopper.

Gretchen\'s eyes widened like she was thinking "E tu, Brute," and Rachel was horrified to hear her say, \"You three. Four demerits each. Leave the table.\"

Omar and Ben must have had some kind of pact of solidarity because neither of them moved. Rachel started to stand but suddenly spinach was flying like confetti. People were grabbing the greens and flinging them at each other. Gretchen took a direct hit to the cheek while the yams became more lethal projectiles.

\"Food fight!\" James yelled.

\"Yam this up your ass!\" Omar yelled and orange yam gunk hit the dining room wall and slipped down the paint like a runny egg.

Gretchen had a death grip on the call button. Bruce came running from the direction of the office, Margaret hauled ass from the kitchen.

Margaret thundered in the voice of a drill sergeant. \"Stop! You kids sit down!\"

She banged a wooden spoon on the stainless steel bowl that a few leaves of spinach still clung to and a line from a Shakespearean sonnet came to Rachel in the chaos. *That time of year when\...when yellow leaves or none or few do hang\...*

Rachel got her 1st full tilt demerit day. Toilet cleaning, after emergency therapy session and yet another accountability letter. Omar got sent to Stable. And Ben. Ben went home! He'd been complaining about the food for months and apparently, the food fight was the last straw with his parents. What kind of incentive was a full demerit when it got you released from hell?

PAGE \\\* MERGEFORMAT 4
