---
uid: 01KAGWEJCE5SYPMZMBBDANSZN2
project: you-da-hoe
source_file: 11-8-2013 The Claw.docx
converted_date: '2025-11-24T12:21:32.380084'
wordcount: 835
version: 1
---

11/8/2013

The Claw

Rusty knows the house inside and out. His old man used to do pick-up carpentry and repair work when he wasn\'t hitting the bottle and he\'d drag the \"pissant\" with to lug lumber and hand him tools. If he didn\'t know the difference between a lag bolt and a nut, he\'d get a cuff on the ear that would make his head ring for days. Still it hadn\'t been all work and no play. Russ had been sent through the duct work overhead and he knew the place in the crawl space where you could enter the main floor through a plywood door with a busted latch.

All this was way before Hazey bought the Christianson place to turn into a daycare for fruitcakes.

It had been easy to crawl through the half door that led directly to the laundry room at the end of the hall. He just had to make sure Margaret Watchman didn\'t get wind of him in the house. He could hear her singing over the whir of a vacuum. Did that nosy bitch never shut her pie hole? He cracked all the windows facing the back of the house. Not enough to be noticeable, just wide enough to snake a golf club handle through the gap.

Mind the gap. The phrase floated in his mind when he was testing the homemade claw. Had he heard it on TV? He didn\'t know any English people. Not that many of them in Idaho. What did mind the gap mean exactly? He was worried that he hadn\'t widened the gap further because the golf club handle wasn\'t the problem with the claw. It was the vice gripper head he\'d welded to the shaft \-- actually 3 shafts of 3 Ping golf clubs he\'d lifted from a bag that was leaning up against the country club clubhouse so long ago, he almost forgot he had them when he was trying to figure out how to make a tool that would allow him to explore anywhere he felt like without actually being in the room. The claw gripper was a \_\_\_\_, it had a foot on one end and could pull open drawers and lift out bras or lacey panties or teeshirts that still smell of the sleeping girl in the bed who\'d just taken it off.

Well that was the idea. If you could get the goddamned window open a little further without making any sound or window sash squeal. Russ held his breath after shoving the wood frame up and down. It made the sound of wood against wood and his heart pounded against his ribs as he watched the kids in the beds. Not a peep from them.

His heart went back to normal as he worked the claw over to the dresser by the wall. You had to be careful not to knock anything off the top. The claw held repurposed headlamp lights embedded in the end. He\'d tried working \_\_\_\_ with a remote switch like of those James Bond infrared lights but it was touchy, so he turned it on manually before he snaked it through the window.

He wasn\'t looking for anything in particular. Something personal. Something that belonged to the tall blond girl with the ponytail and smooth legs that went all the way to her runner\'s butt. He\'d snagged coin purses. Perfume \-- though to be honest, he feared \_\_\_\_\_ with tiny glass bottles which were likely to slip, even with the anti-grip safety mesh he\'d lined the claw fingers with. He\'d know it when he saw it, he told himself.

Every time he saw the blond, she was either surrounded by a passel of kids from the program or she was hunkered down in her bed, propped up against the pillows, writing.

The claw hovered over the desk casting triangular shaped arcs on white paper. A notebook? Maybe a diary? He closed the claw fingers with the hand gripper and levered the spiral bound pages through the air holding his breath as he passed within a foot of the sleeper\'s head in the nearest bed. A cold breeze fluttered the papers. He hopes they weren\'t making any flap or flutter to give him away.

Now the problem was getting a goddamned note book through the crack. Fuck. He\'s always chosen \_\_\_\_\_ stuff \-- jewelry or the occasional IPod. Never anything as big as a school notepad.

At the last minute, he was able to set it on the bed over by the sleeping girl\'s feet, he \_\_\_\_\_. He re-gripped it so the long claw finger pinned the pad on the long end and miracle of miracles, he was able to lift it sideways through the 3\" gap.

No more minding the gap, he told himself as he crunched across the snowy field to the next driveway over where he\'d parked the truck. He could read the black magic marker name in a loopy school girl\'s hand. Rachel Interlachen.

Titty girl had a name.
