---
uid: 01KAGWFFRYZQ2PET38TBJ06QZF
project: you-da-hoe
source_file: 11-9-2013 So Tired.docx
converted_date: '2025-11-24T12:21:17.924524'
wordcount: 1841
version: 1
---

11/9/2013

So Tired

I want to write a scene about Old Girl\'s tiredness and how that translates to a sense of hopelessness and an inability to go on. A short scene. Just 2 paragraphs that reveal her mental state and the pull to die.

Old Girl didn't remember when she hadn't been subject to the magnetic pull of dangerous things. The depths of Lake Pend d\'Oreille. The mirror in the bathroom begging to be smashed free of its life taking shards. Even the stupid van speeding along from town back to Healing House that she was riding in today. She was in the passenger seat. Margaret was at the wheel. The door lock beckoned to her over her right shoulder. Unlock me. Throw the door handle and push your body against the door. She imagined herself hanging between the swinging door and the moving seat. Asphalt would rush below live a river. All she\'d have to do is let go.

It was worse when she was tired. The night before, her sleep was uneven. She kept thinking she was hearing shutter snaps under her light and fitful sleep. Around 3 a.m. she woke up and looked at the silver-lit snow. She thought she smelled cigarette smoke, a waft of tobacco smoke in from the window she couldn\'t remember leaving cracked. Her nose felt cold so she padded across the room to Rachel\'s side and yanked the sash down. It hit with a bang and she whispered, \"Sorry,\" but all Rachel did was turn over with a sigh.

All consequences of her bone weariness. The vision of pulling the coke machine over on top of her. death by crushing. She spent half of English class, which she normally liked, trying to figure out how to kill herself on the first floor of the Ed building with Professor Williams droning on about Shakespeare\'s motif of time in Macbeth (look up time reference for Shakespeare\'s plays). The only good idea she came up with was to steal Professor Williams\' aspirin bottle and down it but she knew the idea was lame and overdone. Maybe one of the Idaho cowboy kids had a car with a loose exhaust pipe. But then where would she get a hose in the middle of January when every irrigation device was locked away?

\"Why so many?\" Margaret\'s voice shot through the clatter in the back of the van. All six kids had miraculously been on time. Usually they had to wait around at the pick-up spot waiting for Lydia who never met a clock she didn\'t think was half an hour early.

Lydia had been at the van stop before Old Girl. She must be sick.

\"Hey, I\'m talking to you, dreamy,\" said Margaret.

\"Sorry. I didn\'t sleep last night?\"

\"Why not?\"

\"Et tu, Brute?\" Old Girl asked.

\"What's that supposed to mean?\"

\"We\'re reading Shakespeare in Lit class. It means mind your own business.\"

\"Does not,\" Margaret said. \"It means, \'You too, Brutus?\"

Margaret was surprisingly well read. She was not like the therapists, nosy to a fault, and Old Girl had never known her to rat you out for telling her something personal.

\"Sorry,\" Old Girl said. \"I can\'t help defending myself. Everybody always trying to get the latest dirt. Then they try to smother you with it.\"

By then they were turning into the rutted driveway and the van jounced and shuddered. No wonder the piece of shit had a million squeaks.

\"Take a nap,\" Margaret turned back to her as Old Girl was collecting her pack and her hat and gloves. \"You look like a raccoon.\"

\"Huh?\"

\"Rings around your eyes, silly. Growing bones need sleep.\"

Old Girl rolled her eyes but she felt less tired on the way into the house. Normally she thought about lying in the snow and letting herself freeze to death. It didn\'t cross her mind after Margaret patted her back and swatted her gently down to the hall to her room.

Rewrite of claw exploration scene.

The fucker was heavy. Rusty was happy with the video camera but the ability to see and record what the claw was touching added weight. It didn\'t help that the jury-rigged steel he'd hand welded had been heavy to begin with. He should have started with something thinner but there was a fine line between being thick enough to hold the thing stiff over 12' and being thin and droopy. The claw hand which he needed to grip \-- the whole point was to be able to take what he liked \-- was made of light-weight plastic but when he had the bright idea to add a remote controlled camera, the weight just got out of hand.

Still he was proud of the claw. It could pull open drawers, pick stuff up or drop it. The camera eye could work like a video or just a camera though he hadn\'t been able to figure out how to turn off the shutter click. Russ was good with his hands and his welding skills were OK. the tool might not win any beauty contest but it looked damn good as it hovered over the dark dresser top and descended to the drawer pull where he had to activate the vise grip so it could get a hold on the wooden knobs.

It took two tries to get the drawer open. He had to pull one knob and then lever the claw to the second knob on the horizontal drawer in order to get it open. Center installed drawer pulls were his favorite but fucking Hazey must have gotten a deal on oak dressers because every bedroom in the house had the same exact furniture. He was rewarded for his tired shoulder by the sight of underpants. Lots of underpants folded in a stack next to lacey bras that looked ethereally bright in night vision mode of the Montrie spy camera cleverly painted with camouflage colors. He whistled low under his breath when the claw hook picked up a bra by the strap. Its cups were deep and radiant even through the monitor he propped on the outer window still was only 3\" wide. He\'d wanted to spring for the bigger 6x9 version but money was too goddamned tight to waste. The problem with living in goddamned rural Idaho not that he was planning on living anywhere else, was that cheap-ass Idahoans could dump their garbage for free by driving out any logging road and giving their shit the heave-ho when they should have been paying Harrow Dump their \$20 fee.

The bra floated as if by magic over the sleeping form of the girl with the hairdo---what were those long matted sprout thing? Her face was turned away from the window and the weird looking clump of hair hung over the side of the mattress like a rat tail. He reeled the bra closer, slowing down when he got close to the window so he could grab the strap and get it off the claw hook.

He almost came on the spot when the buried his nose in the cup and got a whiff of the lavender smell. He imagined Tittie Girl's nipple touching the place where his nose was buried. Fishing was over.

He jerked off, his dick wrapped in lace and felt the top of his head come off when he shot his wad against the siding of the building. Oh holy Christ. He would have chopped his whole arm off if he\'d known it would feel this good.

I want to write a scene where James reveals himself to Rachel. Where would they be? They get play dates like snowboarding and skiing at North Star and they go bowling. James is an athlete and he\'s pretty good at any sport and Rachel sucks.

The crash of pins. The irritant buzz of the reset button. Ball after ball thundering down smooth wood and galloping into the gutter with a dispiriting bang and whoosh.

James said, \"You almost had it. Next time, try not to release the ball at the end of your arc.\"

Rachel, bad at snowboarding, terrible at board games, a danger to herself and others with a pool cue, continued her athletic shame at Leilani Lanes in downtown Coeur d\'Alene.

\"I thought we\'re here for fun,\" she said. \"This is torture.\"

James had just stepped up to the bowling lane as graceful as a ballet dancer. He slid a burgundy and gray shoe that should have made him look like a dweeb and instead looked so gorgeous and unattainable she wanted to cry.

Score: Rachel 42

James 185

\"You\'re trying too hard,\" he said. \"Loosen up. Want a Coke? I\'m thirsty.\"

They gave up their lane to Reza and Lydia who were surprisingly competitive. Lydia looked like a 50s chick with her curly hair pulled away from her face with a wide red headband, and vintage black bowling shirt that said Detroit Diesel on the back and \"Andy\" in red embroidery over her boob.

\"Nice outfit,\" Rachel said.

Reza, wearing a Phillips tee shirt and jeans said, \"Thanks,\" and then bowled.

\"Go fuck yourself,\" said James who was still mad at Reza for wearing one of his shirts without permission.

James paid for her Coke and ordered an orange Nehi and ordered a cheeseburger with fries. He looked at her and Rachel shook her head. \"I already ate.\"

\"So did I,\" James said. \"That was 3 hours ago.\"

She laughed. \"I\'m a girl,\" she said, \"not a bottomless pit.\"

While they waited for his food at a booth, James took all the sugar packets out and stacked them up. He balanced a glass salt shaker on top of the packets, then tried to add the pepper shaker and the whole thing toppled. Pepper flew and Rachel immediately started sneezing.

\"Sorry,\" he said. \"I wasn\'t trying to kill you.\"

\"Finally something you\'re not good at,\" Rachel said.

\"Stacking sugar packets is an art! It takes practice.\"

\"Have you been practicing your bowling?\"

\"No.\"

\"I didn\'t think so. How about snowboarding? You were good at that and you said it was your first time.\"

\"It was. There\'s not a lot of snow in Malibu,\" he glanced at her with smoke-gray eyes. \"It was your first time, too. You should cut yourself some slack.\"

\"You were even good at salsa. Doesn\'t it get old being good at everything?\"

No eye contact with that remark.

\"You just don\'t know me. I\'m a fuck up.\"

She didn\'t answer with smart-ass quip like they\'d been exchanging the whole night. She sat back against the red bench and waited.

\"Tell me,\" she said. \"I want to know.\"

He looked around for the waitress. \"This isn\'t exactly fast food.\"

\"Why do you always do that?\"

\"What?\"

\"Change the subject.\"

\"I didn\'t. I just...\" He stopped, nonplussed.

\"Why'd you say you\'re a fuck-up? That\'s not what I see.\"

\"Well you are locked up in a psychiatric treatment facility so you\'re not exactly unbiased.\"

\"I\'m not,\" she said. \"I like you.
