---
uid: 01KAGWE99GPW5YZ5P6H80B331F
project: you-da-hoe
source_file: 11. Lydia gets asked out on a coffee date with Lorenzo.docx
converted_date: '2025-11-24T12:21:36.818836'
wordcount: 527
version: 1
---

11\.

"ALL GUYS LIKE BLOW JOBS.\"

\"No. I don\'t want to do that with you.\"

The boy named Lorenzo\--the name was another weird thing about him---wouldn't meet Lydia's eyes. He took a drink of tap water and watched the kids at the Student Union salad bar loading their plates.

\""Why not? Are you gay?\" Lydia asked. She was starting to wonder if she was losing her touch. "You're kidding, right?"

\"No. What makes you say that?\" Lorenzo looked genuinely curious, like she'd called him a circus animal or a giraffe. Something he knew by name but wasn\'t all that familiar with.

He was frowning. Not with disgust, exactly, more like distaste. As if she\'d used the wrong fork or burped in public. "That's for after you\'re married."

\"You\'re weird," she said.

\"Better than selling myself short,\" he said.

\"I\'m not getting this. Your parents kicked you out of your house for being a threat to \-- what\'d you call him \-- Prophet Joseph?\"

\"Deacon. Deacon Joseph,\" he said.

\"What the fuck do you care about following Mormon rules? They kicked you out. Why would you follow some stupid Church rules when it was the Church who broke their own rules?\"

\"You wouldn\'t understand. You weren\'t brought up that way.\"

It occurred to Lydia that she hadn\'t exactly been brought up believing it was her God-given duty to put every cock she encountered in her mouth. It had always seemed like a way to be nice to someone, kind of like sharing a sandwich or drinking from the same straw. Guys liked it. Ergo, Lydia liked it especially because it made her feel both powerful and important. What was a little sperm juice on her chin compared to the knowledge that you were the one with superhuman powers that could make someone fly?

By then, Lorenzo was gathering up his notebooks and a dog-eared copy of Plato\'s Republic.

\"Oh, you like history?\" Lydia nodded at the book on top.

\"This is philosophy,\" he said.

\"Oh," she said, feeling stupid. "I'm not that smart."

He touched a springy curl that had come loose from her headband and tucked it behind her ear. It was such a light and tender touch it made her blink. He'd just refused her offer of a blowjob and now he was touching her?

\"Maybe we could have a coffee on Thursday,\" he said. \"Will you be here?\"

She nodded. Knock me down with a toothpick. Is he asking me on a date? \"I have English lit class before this."

\"See you then?\"

She felt a little at sea. She wasn\'t sure she\'d ever been on a coffee date. She was so used to going right to the main event. Then heart lifted at the unexpected feeling of lightness. No need perform. "OK," she said. She raised her volume because he was already passing the salad bar. \"I\'ll be here.\"

She went outside to the stop sign to wait for the van. She was five minutes ahead of time\--a novel experience\--and she didn\'t feel the cold of the biting breeze off the lake. A coffee date. What should she wear to a coffee date?

\#
