---
uid: 01KAGVQJZG1AS6GAKHRTGWWWP9
project: you-da-hoe
source_file: 11. Rachel Wonders about James.docx
converted_date: '2025-11-24T17:40:08.002903'
wordcount: 448
version: 1
---

11\.

"DO YOU KNOW THAT GUY?" Professor Lengel looked to Rachel like she wanted to call the cops.

"We're both at Inner Horizons," Rachel said.

Lengel, unlike every townie she'd ever met, didn't look away or turn away or get a smarmy "I'm so sorry" look when Rachel mentioned treatment.

She seemed honestly surprised. "He's the smartest kid in my Intro to Humanities class. What's he doing *there?*"

Trying to survive, like the rest of us, Rachel thought.

"You'd think with those brains he'd be able to tell the difference between the Men's Room and the Women's." The professor was smiling at her. It was weird how Rachel seemed to have lost the ability to recognize a joke when it was offered. Still, the little attempt at humor felt like being remembered on her birthday with something she actually wanted.

Then the thought occurred to Rachel that her American Lit prof probably thought James was meeting *her*. "He's not my boyfriend. He was here when I came in!"

The professor gazed steadily at Rachel and nodded, as if to say that explained something she'd been wondering about. Rachel was taking Lengel\'s survey class and turned her papers in on time, gettingmostly A's -- a few B's \-- on her essay tests. Well, except for her latest paper on *Huck Finn*. Rachel was still reeling from the big fat C- minus. Lengel had written, in red accusatory ink, "Come see me!" written next to the crappy grade. Before running into her in the bathroom, Rachel had planned to stop by her office after class. God forbid, Lengel would talk about her paper on Huck and Jim\'s homoerotic relationship while some older woman was making disgusting noises in one of the stalls.

"He told me he was from Malibu," Lengel said.

Rachel shrugged. \"I guess. I don\'t really know him.\"

"Maybe he heard the surf was up in Lake Coeur D'Alene."

Again, Lengel's mild attempt at humor took Rachel a minute to process. Professors were somewhere between gods and alien beings to Rachel. They were like Martians but better read. The idea that a professor could be a human struck her as more intimate than she wanted to admit.And when she followed that thought with the knowledge that Lengel was in the women's restroom to pee, Rachel had to look away.

As if Rachel's thought prompted her to action, the professor headed into a stall, saying, "Tell James to stop by my office." Then Rachel heard her muffled voice through thed December 6, 2018 at 12:29 PMoor. "And don\'t forget to make your appointment. Your Huck Fin paper is a mess.\"

Great, Rachel thought. Now we're both in trouble.

\#
