---
uid: 01KAGVNXP0R89SFAM31HDA9MKD
project: you-da-hoe
source_file: 111514 Main Character Goals for Author Questionaire.docx
converted_date: '2025-11-24T17:40:23.062544'
wordcount: 1045
version: 1
---

111514 Main Character Goals for Author Questionaire

*What are the main characters' internal goals? What do they want deep down?*

**Old Girl** wants to kill herself because she just wants the pain of existence to stop. Living without mother, father and brother is too hard. What she wants deep down is to put an end to the pain of existence and what she has to learn is that pain is part of and necessary to existence. What in fact makes existence worth existing for is the pleasure that is the far side of pain.

**James** wants to hide the fact that he's a worm and a fuck-up and an idiot responsible for the death---holy Christ! D-E-A-T-H!---of a young girl he picked up hitchhiking after a party in Topanga Canyon. He can't see that in order to grow beyond his worminess, he has to expose the maggots inside him to the open air. He uses drugs and weed and booze and uppers and downers and poppers as escapes but every time he sobers up, he wants to go back down in the haze where he can't recognize his wormy, moth-eaten state. James knows he's a fuck-up and he's so busy hiding his fucked-up-ness, he fucks up everything he touches until he stops fucking up by admitting it.

**Rachel** wants to be whole again. She felt round and full and somehow complete when she was accidentally pregnant and when the baby was snatched away from her parents who told her she wasn't ready to take care of herself, let alone a child, she feels like less than nothing. She's guilt-ridden for losing the only part of herself that matters and she has to come to terms with losing her childhood and her motherhood and part of her essential self with the loss the baby. "Don't throw the baby out with the bathwater" strikes her as terrible advice, it's what should have happened with her instead of pretending with her parents that the baby never happened. She has to learn to be OK with being a little dirty when she bathes in a tub and continues to leave a grime of guilt and sorrow behind her as she learns to live with herself for her terrible crime.

**Leia** wants someone to love her now matter how hard she tries to prove to herself that she's unlovable. She shoplifts and lies and has pathological sex and throws up everything she consumes in order to show how awful she is. All attention, even negative attention is good attention as long as Leia is not ignored. Deep down, Leia wants rules and structure and limits that she's never had. She's had everything she could want except a mother's or a father's time and attention. If she has to misbehave to get her parents and grandparents full attention---the price of empty sex and too much candy and dozens of donut and all the shit she's stolen that flows out of her closets is worth it.

**Margaret** is a stew of wants. Deep down she wants the kids in the Inner Horizons Program to be OK and fed right and to grow up and out of their crazy behavior even though she knows realistically that some of them are more troubled than can be reasonably cured. She's not convinced Dr. Hazey's brand of psychobabble and drug and talk therapy are going to cure them but maybe three squares a day and time away from their crazy self-involved parents with people like her who care for them and try to help will provide enough time plus a buffer so they can be sent them back out in the world better than they were when the came in to rehab. She wants to do a good job; she wants to get paid a living wage with benefits for her efforts. She doesn't want Dr. Hazey to take the kids' money without helping them. She doesn't want Gretchen the nutritionist to feed them shit or stuff that tastes like cardboard, no matter how nutritious it is. Mostly she doesn't want to make minimum wage when she could be doing Gretchen's job as a nutritionist while feeding the kids' stuff they'd actually like to eat while getting paid to feed her own family.

**Dr. Hazey** wants somebody to take care of him. He got into psychotherapy in order to help people initially and then he saw how hard it was to really help people. Often they got sicker or better despite his best efforts and he really didn't get any care or feeding himself per se, and he got sidetracked by the money. There was an endless supply of sick kids with parents desperate to help them. A seemingly inexhaustible demographic. It didn't seem to matter how much Dr. Hazey charged them. Actually, the more he charged, the more they clambered at the door as if parents with two incomes could spend their kids out of depression or anxiety disorders or mental illness. He liked driving his Mercedes and sleeping in the expensive Sleep Number bed in the big McMansion on Titleist circle. Once when he was tired, he listed his address s Entitleist Circle which Margaret pointed out to him with an eye roll. His big walk-in closet of shoes comforted him more than a fully stocked pantry. He liked having stuff; he just didn't like tending it. Why was it so damned hard to find someone to run things without having to pay them an arm and a leg. He wanted help and he didn't want to pay too much for it so until he felt better able to afford it, he let things slide and put off decisions until they were past due. He also didn't like to be bothered with management decisions. People shouldn't have to be managed. They should manage themselves, something he wasn't good at, though he'd be first to admit when things got fucked up. You were damned if you did and damned if you didn't. He'd come to the conclusion it was often easier to let things lump along until the wheels fell off the track. Laissez faire management worked OK the way he practiced it: heavy on the less and not that fair and seriously short on management.
