---
uid: 01KAGWHX7DVR6D2C287TSAEBMK
project: you-da-hoe
source_file: 112818 OG Rules of Road New Opening.docx
converted_date: '2025-11-24T12:20:39.609170'
wordcount: 969
version: 1
---

112818 OG Rules of Road New Opening

Today was unusual because Darlene had tantalized them with the promise of a hike after Process Group "if they were good" i.e. blew their noses and made their beds and didn't break out in a Tourett's fit of swearing (Reza) or pull a room- mate's hair (Danni) or start a fire (Big Paul), they would hike on snow shoes to Two Mouth Lake. Two Outdoor Recreation outings in a row. It was unheard of. It was also Martin Luther King Day, a three-day holiday after three weeks of staring at each other locked inside four walls while snow came down in curtains day after day.

Their Sisyphean task was to roll the horrible weighted ball of normal behavior up a steep, interminable slope and when you got to the top, shaken and weary and sobbing with effort, you were supposed to let the iron weight roll over you on its way down the hill. No one made it through Intensive in the brochure's wildly optimistic three months. If you were lucky (OG wasn't), you made it up to the brink and the ball rolled back over you like a Caterpillar steam roller two or three times before you were allowed to move ahead into Community Re-Introduction, where the same climb up to the brink and the roll back to the bottom to try again would rinse and repeat till the Program had wrung all your family's money out of them.

OG knew this from painful personal experience. She'd just found an invoice on the Xerox machine which was made out to Uncle David and Aunt Peggy, her guardians. It was the third invoice printed with a big red LATE notice on the bill.

Inner Horizons had an arcane demerit system based on the Four Quadrants of Daily Living, basically a bunch of horseshit that any sleepover camp would call The Rules. If you behaved---ate your overcooked spinach, made your bed, refrained from spitting on your housemates, said at least two innocuous things at Process Group instead of sitting like a lump of coal outside the circle of chairs as OG was doing today---your good behavior would earn you a three or four in Daily Living. If you went off on your therapist (Estie) or pulled someone's hair (Danni) or wouldn't get out of bed (Big Paul), you earned a one. Personally, OG didn't give a shit -- nor did anyone else who lived at Healing House---if she got ones. Today, though, a one meant no Outdoor Recreation. They'd been cooped up inside for three weeks because that's how long it had been snowing in great white curtains. If she didn't get outside, OG was going to shift her focus from killing herself and apply her considerable intellect on killing everyone around her starting with Head Therapist Darlene.

Nobody in the room wanted to risk getting a one today of all days. The Program, in its glossy four-color brochures that OG had seen in Dr. Hazey's office, touted a philosophy of teaching the Four Quadrants of Daily Living. If you behaved---at your inedible spinach, made your bed, said please and thank you, didn't stab a tablemate with a fork, you were graded on your best behavior with threes or fours. If you pulled a peer's hair (Danni), failed to get out of bed repeatedly (OG), stole from your roommate (Reza), got caught with cigarettes (Danni), weed (James), palming your meds and selling them (everyone), you got handed a two if you were lucky, and a one if you were not. Enough ones in the Four Quadrants of I, you, we, and they, and you were denied privileges. Today's Outdoor Recreation hike, after three solid weeks of snow kept them staring at each other inside four walls was a privilege no one wanted to loose. But the real damage of consistent ones in all the quadrants was that any progress through the arcane stages of Inner Horizon would be erased.

Theoretically when you arrived from whatever fuck up that got you sent to the most fucked up psychiatric treatment facility in the country, you were supposed to spend three months in the fucked up gulag called Intensive. Intensive was where the noose was the tightest. Five times a week of intensive therapy, two intensive process groups per week and no extracurricular activities as mundane as a walk around the block. Who wouldn't be a raving maniac without an intensive hair shirt?

When you were finally moved to Community Re-Introduction, they knocked back therapy to three times a week and kept up Process Group twice a week, then big whoop, gave you the "opportunity" to take one or two classes at Northern Idaho Community College (NICC), if you were college bound, or you could work fifteen hours a week of "community service" which might involve bagging potatoes at the Food Pantry or sorting dirty underwear at the Povarello Center, the Idaho version of Good Will. Shining far out in the distance of the Inner Horizon brochure was the paradise of Transition, where well and happy clients lived in a grown-up apartment, were given a real key for the door, and you either went to school or worked at a job with minimal supervision but were till tethered to Inner Horizon's astronomical fees by bi-weekly therapy sessions.

No one in this room had ever been in Transition. OG had known a girl a long time ago who got there but then she'd run and no more was heard about her till the night she came back 15 pounds lighter and shaking and she was shuttled off to the gulag called Stabilization which a gulag of a different order with hospital beds and nurses and cataleptic drugs so calming you forgot who you were supposed to be.
