---
uid: 01KAGWX84NA4MWEPQG60NQA788
project: you-da-hoe
source_file: 12. Margaret breaks up catfight.docx
converted_date: '2025-11-24T11:59:46.561818'
wordcount: 1496
version: 1
---

12\.

MARGARET WISHED TO HELL THEY'D bring back corporal punishment. She'd start with whoever clogged the toilet in the Boys' Wing with a sock. Who would try to flush a crew *sock* down the toilet? Margaret didn't even want to think about what was in the sock. The crazy shit these kids thought up.

If they spent half their time devoting their intelligence to fixing their issues instead of acting out, they\'d turn out OK. That was Margaret's common sense opinion. But then, of course, Margaret wouldn\'t have her shitty low-paying job filling out damage claims because one of the Anger Managements punched a hole in the laundry room wall.

When she finished filling, Margaret went into the living room to dust. She thought the photos of people from the old country that took up an entire wall of the Healing House living area would be more interesting if they didn't require so much work. Whose idea were all those heavy gold frames with swirls and furbelows?

On the whole, though, she liked the people in the portraits. They seemed like an industrious lot.

She was keeping one ear half-tuned to the two troublemakers snarking at each other on the couches. Dani, and Estie were waiting for the van to show up to drive them to their therapy appointments in town. A few minutes later, Lydia joined them. They hadn't been together in the same room for more than a few minutes before they sounded like a swarm of angry bees.

Estie had lost weight. She'd dropped sixty pounds, which is why Margaret had to stop by Target on her way to work to pick up something that would fit her. She was still size 2X and nobody had anything big enough to lend her\--not even Margaret whose size 16 pants pinched her in the gut. Too many donuts, gotta quit, she told herself, taking a quick bite of the maple bar she'd picked up at Starbucks.

Dani was involved in some kind of devilment against Estie, Margaret could tell. Estie sagged like a blob of misery taking up most of the plaid couch. Dani sprawled full length on the couch with the bloodstain. Lydia was reading a People magazine at the game table, ignoring them. Between a rock and a hard place. That Dani. She was the meanest girl Margaret had ever met and that was saying something if you were raised on the wrong side of the tracks in Yakima.

Estie hit a milestone in the weekly weigh-in: 285 pounds. Quite an achievement considering she'd entered the Program weighing 365. You'd think those skinny girls would pat Estie on the back for all her hard work. Hell, no. Dani asked Estie how she could stand to see herself in the mirror (Margaret wrote her up immediately). Margaret knew from the grapevine that they called her Cellulitis though she hadn\'t been able to catch them at it. It was like the poor girl\'s fat cells drove those skinny girls crazy.

Margaret spritzed at an image of a peasant woman with vinegar and water, her grandmother's recipe before Windex took over the world. She scrubbed hard at a hickey under the old woman's eye before she realized it was a wen. She looked crow-like in a black dress, black shawl, and a black babushka scarf tied under her chin with both hands folded over a stomach as round as a bowling ball. The hands were chapped and cracked like they'd been dipped in lye. It occurred to Margaret that they probably had been dipped in lye. This woman of all people would appreciate Margret's mother's vinegar solution---gentle! Doesn't take your hide off! ---and not for the first time, Margaret wondered how these people on the wall were related to Dr. Hazey, her crazy, and criminally lazy boss.

It was probably Dr. August Hazey's idea to frame all those photos in dust-sucking frames, she thought darkly.

Manual laborers and soldiers mixed with a pastry chef with a copper bowl as big as he was ---a man who enjoyed the fruits of their labors! --- along with a street sweeper in patched clothes. A bricklayer emerged from a hole in the ground as if from hell.

At least someone saw them. The people weren't invisible to whoever captured them on film, not like she felt herself invisible around the great Dr. Hazey who either barred his office door or floated around in a "haze" of airy and vacant distraction.

Did the workers in the photos wait politely while the photographer fussed with the big box? Maybe they were glad for the rest break in their routine. Or maybe they were just thankful someone noticed what they were doing and thought enough of their labors to record it.

If a photographer wandered through Healing House, Margaret imagined showing herself cleaning toilets or unplugging the one clogged by whoever kept jerking off in his sock. She made a mental note to check all the boys' sock drawers and have a private word with Mr. One Sock Toilet Clogger about the limitations of modern plumbing.

Margaret would ask the photographer if she could be memorialized with an upraised toilet plunger in her right hand like the Statue of Liberty. All the socks she'd rescued would be arrayed around her head like a star. She'd call it *Champion of the Poor Man's Condom*, which she thought was just as good a title as the photo in Hazey's office called *Three Farmers On the Way to a Dance*.

Before Hazey's wife, Alma, left him last year with her horse whisperer (he must have been good at whispering in Alma's ear) Alma told Margaret that the old time photos looked like a "Wanted" gallery. Margaret didn't think the bricklayers and chefs and street sweepers and soldiers and policemen looked criminal. Just criminally overworked.

She balled up another newspaper to rub the streaks off a grim farmer surrounded by grim and dour-faced women; even the children in matching blond braids stared back at her with hard faces. If they were Hazey's relatives, he'd inherited their lack of humor but somehow managed to escape their work ethic.

If Margaret had her say, which she didn't she'd\--. Oh Christ!

Margaret flung away her balled up newspaper, and she was in the middle of the catfight before she could finish her thought.

Dani was yanking Esty\'s hair and Estie---good for her! --- clawed at Dani\'s face with her fingernails. Except Esty's nails were chewed to the quick. Still, she managed to bloody Dani\'s nose\--she must have gotten off the first punch---though Dani was popping her on the ear with a closed fist. Margaret hauled Dani backwards, her arms around her middle, while the girl kicked and flailed. Darlene ran in and actually sat down on Estie. Margaret wasn\'t quick enough to stop Dani\'s boot from connecting with Esty\'s kidneys. Cheap shot, the little shit! Margaret shook the cursing, spitting girl. \"Stop it! Get control of yourself!\" she cried over Esty\'s outraged howls.

Margaret didn\'t have time to ask what started the fight because Big Paul, who'd joined the girls while she was cleaning, started throwing up on the rug. Margaret had just had the orange shag cleaned last week and now this big, usually silent savant was spraying chunks of barely digested egg and oatmeal all over it.

Before she let Dani escape, she made her scrub the worst chunks off the rug with Anti-Icky-Poo. \"Isn\'t this the stuff you use on dog shit?\" Lydia wanted to know. Poop. Blood. Vomit. It\'s all the same, Margaret told her.

By the time she and Darlene got everybody carted off to their therapy appointments, it was time to make her weekly Status Calls to the parents.

Margaret was supposed to call 20 parents once a week to report on the kids' \"progress in daily living.\" Margaret wished fervently she could tell someone how she herself was progressing in daily living.

Was that job at the Tasty Freeze still open?

It paid a dollar an hour less than Day Supervisor at Healing House (Heller House is what she called it when she told Hank, her husband, about her day. He was a Wal-Mart stocker but he'd hurt his back lifting something stupid so they really needed her paycheck. Jobs--at least ones that paid a living wage---weren't thick on the ground in Coeur D'Alene where cheap employers hired part-time so they didn't have to pay benefits.

Two years ago, when Dr. Hazey told her he'd pay her hourly, plus benefits (hallelujah!), she thought she'd won the Powerball Lottery. Of course, she'd gone two years without a raise and Hazey hadn't mentioned the joy of finding a bag of vomit stashed in Dani's closet. If her roommate hadn't complained about the smell, the foul thing would still be there.

Later today she had a meeting with the plumber. Jesus.

Didn't these kids have any idea they'd have to pay a mortgage someday?

\#
