---
uid: 01KAGVZBWK1K9ASXB7AG296PHQ
project: you-da-hoe
source_file: 13. Hazey goes to la-la land.docx
converted_date: '2025-11-24T12:25:42.250133'
wordcount: 1285
version: 1
---

13\.

DAMN IT. CALLIOPE, THE RELENTLESS NEW BOOKKEEPER, had piled a stack of billing on Dr. Hazey's chair. The yellow post-it note in her loopy script said, "Sign *today*."

Dr. Hazey felt persecuted and put upon by his new hire. The Inner Horizon secret was that it was an Outer Horizon for almost everybody he hired. According to the computer report from the new accounting hire, an uber-organized, military martinet with the unlike name of Calliope Winters, the company's average turn-over rate was 63% .

Even the woman's handwriting was commanding: her Magic-Markered Post It note ended in an exclamation mark that looked like a middle finger to Hazey's authority as head of Inner Horizons Institute, headquartered in Coeur d'Alene, with plans for offices in Spokane and Boise and Billings, as his 10-step process for taking troubled teens to untroubled maturity took root.

Hazey rifled a finger over the disorganized shelves of CDs that filled two bookcases across from his desk. He was looking for Boris Godunov until he decided the Russian revolution and the warring peasants weren't all that relaxing for reviewing cruise brochures. Did proletariats deserve vacation? Or was that their problem with the nobility?

He had to have a vacation to look forward to or all the work he had to do would make him certifiable. What he really wanted to do was lock his office door, settle back with his Bose head phones that shut out the sound of clients squabbling in the game room next door, and spend the rest of the day choosing between the islands of Tahiti or the archipelago of Fiji.

Hi slid Don Ho into the CD player. T*iny Bubbles, The Remastered Classic*. Unlocked the bottom drawer of his desk where the palm trees and airbrushed blue waves of a tropical paradise called him away from the view of the icicle-fringed birdbath on the Healing House lawn.

Parents with sick kids were willing to pay through the nose for the hope of mental help, hope being the operative word, not so much the delivered product, if Hazey was willing to admit the truth, which he wasn't. Especially not now when the pleasure of planning a getaway from his empire warred against the need to run the damn thing.

He settled fat soft earphones over his head. Ukulele chords strummed the palm trees of Mauritius and the Seychelles and Kona---anywhere that wasn't frozen Idaho---into his ears. He opened a bottle of Valium he'd stashed in his pocket, ignoring the prescription label made out for Rebekah Rabinowitz, the Jewish girl with runaway anxiety that had made her run off and get treatment at Harvard's Medill Center when her parents figured out that Hazey's 10-step process was nine steps short of helping Rebekah cope.

He washed down two pills with a swig of Courvoisier stashed under the vacation brochures and leaned back in the leather chair while flipping through pages of happy silver-haired couples. They were thin and well-dressed and carefully coifed. Proof that money was the best weapon against age.

He didn't hear the door open. Don Ho was warbling about warm trade winds. Then he felt a cold ripple of frigid air from the hall. An invoice lifted off the stack he'd shoved aside on his desk and floated down to his lap over a glossy photo of a cabana with a view of the ocean. A "past due" settled on the page like an omen.

Hazey could feel the happy slowing of his bloodstream. He rocked back and flashed a beatific smile at Calliope and Michael Halpern, a new therapist. Dr. Augustus Sanders Hazey, Ph.D. and Founder of the Inner Horizons Institute reporting to staff for inspirational duty.

"How are we going to pay your salary?" Calliope was mid-sentence and glaring at Michael when Hazey propped his earphone on top of his frontal lobe. "Those deadbeats haven't made a payment since November!"

"Estie is sick!" Michael's fleshy face was alarmingly red. Not that Hazey was alarmed, but his medical training registered the flush, the rapid pulse in his carotid artery, and the rise in his voice. Too many burgers and milkshakes were building up in Michael's mid-fifties arteries; they were also showing in his belly, low and drooping over his belt.

"You put her in Stabilization for three weeks. Do you know how expensive 24-hour medical supervisions is? The parents can't pay. Send her home!"

"Over my dead body! Estie is staying. What the fuck do you know about therapy? You're a book-keeper!"

"I can add," she said tartly. "Better than you can."

Hazey was thankful it was Estie they were arguing about. He was tired of Calliope always trying to strong arm him into calling OG's guardians about their late payments. Hazy wouldn't protest losing the lardy lump but OG would be another matter. They were making progress, he was sure of it. She hadn't had a suicide attempt for six months. True, she'd broken her arm in a fall from his motorboat in July but anybody could have fallen out of the boat when he hit that wake. He'd told her to sit down in the seat, he was sure of it.

Michael and Calliope were nose to nose like two street fighters. He barely registered when they turned and were both staring at him. What? What could he possibly say that was more profound than *Tiny bubbles in the wine make me happy, make me happy, make me feel fine?*

"Dr. Hazey, you've got to tell her. We can't release Estie. She's a powder keg," said Michael.

Estie? Was she the lumbering fat girl on Thorazine? Hazey's recollection of her was that she had acne and answered in monosyllables. The staff had just been talking about her in weekly meeting. Something about a fork in the back of somebody's hand? Wasn't that what sent her to Stable the last time? Hazey had an unpleasant memory of having to explain the incident to the parents of the kid who'd been stabbed. The trick was to minimize the incident to the parents and maximize it on the insurance claim. Who was it who got forked? He'd have to see if he was stilling writing prescriptions in their name. Perhaps that would help him remember.

"How late are they?" Hazey's voice sounded like it came from deep in a cave.

"They haven't made a full payment since ---." Calliope riffled through her notes with lips pursed in the tiny wrinkle lines of a drawstring purse. What a good person to have collecting fees, floated through Hazey's mind like a champagne bubble. A purse that only took money in and never let it out. He was flooded with a sense of love and well being. If he had any sexual feelings, which he had long ago forgotten due to the cocktail of uppers, downers and status quo drugs he used, he would marry her. Perhaps Michael should marry her as Hazey's proxy? He could bring up the idea at Michael's next review.

"Dr. Hazey?" Calliope was looking at him with hungry eyes.

"Umm. Are you feeling OK, Doc?" Hazey thought Michael called him Drank. At a recent meeting, one of the therapists talked about codeine -- or was it cough syrup---and what the kids like to mix with it. If you mixed codeine and cough syrup and Sprite with a purple Jolly Rancher, they called it voodoo. Maybe he should buy some. He could use some voodoo in his life. If drinking a purple drank was required for the good of science, he was for it. Don Ho would approve, he thought, right before his head thunked to the desktop like a melon.

Warm, tropical darkness.

\#
