---
uid: 01KAGWT0KGRJAH98XM5XP5MYQG
project: you-da-hoe
source_file: 14. Margaret gets into it with Gretchen.docx
converted_date: '2025-11-24T12:13:33.513012'
wordcount: 1213
version: 1
---

14\.

THE ARGUMENT BETWEEN GRINCHIN AND Margaret started when Gretchen ordered her to stop vacuuming and set the dinner table.

Margaret said, \"Why don\'t we make the kids set the table? Seems like they\'re big enough to help around here.\" Margaret and Gretchen were in the Healing House kitchen, which looked just like a normal kitchen except for the teddy bear canister on the counter that promised cookies and never delivered them. Blond oak cabinets, dishes stacked in a dish rack, that indefinable astringent smell of the salad dressings Gretchen favored with too much vinegar and not nearly enough oil.

\"Do you have any idea what their parents pay to park them here?\" Gretchen said

\"It has nothing to do with how much we charge," Margaret said. \"How are they ever going to learn responsibility if they never have to work?\" Most of the boys and a few of the girls were lounging in the living room, waiting for dinner to be served. They were killing time with a Monopoly game that was probably in the billions by now.

\"Mind your own business,\" Gretchen said. \"Nobody pays you to think.\"

Margaret couldn't believe she'd heard her right. She stood up to her full 5\' 9 3/4." She\'d always been a big-boned, now, at 50, she was an even bigger with an extra fifty pounds across the beam.

Margaret thought she saw Gretchen swallow until she went back to peering into the refrigerator like a woman who did not expect anything worth eating to come out of it. It was a giant industrial refrigerator; double-sided and packed full of stuff Margaret had shopped for at Costco. Her tall tuft of gelled hair at her widow's peak, her only nod to frivolity, fluttered up above the top of the Frigidaire like a cox comb as her hand went unerringly to the giant bag of spinach she'd been serving for the past three weeks "I know!" she said brightly, like the idea had just occurred to her. "Spinach salad!"

Margaret attempted to keep her voice flat. Noncommittal. "The kids keep sending back their salads. It's all going in the trash."

"Spinach is a nutritional powerhouse!" Gretchen cried, as if Margaret was suggesting heresy.

Margaret couldn't help herself. She said the first thing that came into her mind. "Only if they actually eat it."

Just then, a Nerf ball flew between the two women. It landed in the serving dish Margaret had just taken out of the cupboard

\"Who threw that?" Gretchen cried. "Automatic black mark!"

The silence of the dead lengthened from the family room where all twelve of them pretended to be reading a magazine or doing their nails.

Gretchen stomped over to the empty bowl and removed the Nerf ball.

\"We\'ll take this up with Dr. Hazey tomorrow." She whacked the dinner gong that doubled as a mediation gong in Dialectical Behavior Therapy. It sat on the sideboard and its rich tone filled the dining room like a new round of a prizefight.

Shit, shit, shit, Margaret said to herself. Me and my big yap.

The vision of the line of pill bottles marched like obedient soldiers across the marble counter came to her. It occurred to her that what she needed was something she could hold over Hazey, if Gretchen tried to force her out.

So she didn\'t have a college degree. She didn\'t even have a high school diploma. So what? She had Charlie, her big 27-year-old boy, whom she\'d had to drop out of school for. Back in the day, she and Hank had spent high school humping like rabbits in the backseat of his car. One leg draped over the back of the seat, the feel of plastic under her butt. Almost thirty years later, she could still remember burst of stars the day she had her first orgasm. Since Hank hurt his back, she missed those rodeo rides and she hoped old Hank wasn\'t permanently out to pasture or she didn\'t know what she\'d do. She\'d seen vibrators in the window of the Coeur d\'Alene Love Nest, but couldn't imagine being satisfied with a piece of cold rubber.

Grinchin had two degrees, a college degree from Central Washington University in Ellensburg and a Masters in Nutrition that she never tired of bragging on from the University of Washington. What neither of those degrees had taught her was how to make a anything that was edible.

Margaret knew she could cook circles around skinny Gretchen. Gretchen Beener was a tall, underfed woman with a shorn head. It reminded Margaret of her boys' crew cuts Hank made them wear when they got lice.

It wasn't clear why Gretchen wore it so short that all you could see was scalp. One little tuft of gelled cowlick stuck up above her widow's peak like a cock's comb. At least it would be easy to take care of, unlike Margaret's gray streaked mane of unmanageable curls.

Gretchen also liked to wear unisex clothing. Unisex always made Margaret think of universal sex, meaning a proclivity for sleeping with everyone. But as far ash she knew, Gretchen rode horses in her spare time and that hardly counted as sex. She had been single as long as she'd worked at Inner Horizons, which was only a year longer than Margaret, although the woman liked to make it sound as if she'd been around since God created Inner Horizons.

If Margaret had been around that long, she hoped that the place would be a lot better-organized and not such a revolving door.

What was it about skinny people that made them so bad at food? Margaret and Hank had gone to a Christmas party at the owner of the freight hauling business Hank drove for, when he wasn\'t laid up because of his back. The wife of the owner of Idaho Freight was a tiny, bird-boned woman, no bigger than a 12-year-old. Margaret had never tasted a worse Xmas spread. Runny potato salad. Tarts with a kind of cardboard quiche that tasted anemically of lard. You weren\'t sure if they were supposed to be dessert or dinner bites \-- they were mixed in with brownies from Safeway and Famous Amos chocolate chip cookies that were the size and consistency of hockey pucks.

\"Isn\'t the food divine?\" the owner\'s wife had trilled. \"My tennis friend just started a catering business and I\'m her first customer.\" Margaret hoped the woman was her last customer, grimly thinking about the Christmas party next year, assuming Hank wouldn\'t be permanently laid off if his back didn\'t improve.

She could do the cook\'s job that Gretchen was supposed to be doing and the kids would think they\'d died and gone to heaven. She had enough common sense enough to follow a recipe and try some variations to improve the taste. Hell, she\'d take a nutrition class at night and now that she was motivated to learn and not blinded by her hormones and the muscles in Hank's football player\'s ass, she\'d be just fine at studying.

She slapped the last place setting of cutlery next to the plate. Gretchen wandered by and she turned the knife over at each place setting because Margaret had set the knife blade facing away from the fork.

\#
