---
uid: 01KAGWMASK6BD3VNNGZZ4CK709
project: you-da-hoe
source_file: 15. Rusty does Recon .docx
converted_date: '2025-11-24T12:19:57.996245'
wordcount: 1052
version: 1
---

15\.

USUALLY, RUSTY LIKED RUNNING RECON late at night when everybody was asleep. But the radio said an arctic front was moving south over Idaho like a freight train. More fucking snow to shovel so people could drive into the dump to get rid of their junk.

That's why he decided to get it done early. Plus the thought of the girl had been eating him at him like a cigarette burn.

It was only about 10:30 PM, a few lights from the nut house streamed weak rays on the snowdrifts. It didn't feel like snow. Too fucking cold, if you could believe the wall-mounted thermometer near the front door. Fucking eight degrees above zero. Freeze your balls off if you weren't careful.

He trudged around the back, away from the big sign out front that said Healing House. He kept close to the eaves where snow only skimmed an icy fringe on the leaves. He worked his way around the wing where they kept the boys, ducking under the windows, mostly dark with an occasional breath of warmth. He paused when he got to the back of the main house near the big living room where they had all those couches.

He remembered those couches. Charlene Hightman---he could remember the guys in high school chanting "Hymen! Hymen! Charlene's lost her Hymen!" back before she ballooned up to like two hundred and fifty pounds---old fatso Charlene was on one of them couches, reading a magazine and eating a bag of Cheetos. Her hand dipped orange clusters from the bag to an orange-ringed mouth like a shovel grader. He bobbed under the window, not worried about her seeing him in his stealth suit. Black down jacket, black ski hat pulled down to cover his face --- only his eyes showed --- brown Carrhardt's never washed, so black enough. At the far side of the picture window, he surveyed Charlene. She now had a slash of orange Cheeto dust from cheek to jowl. Behind the mechanical dip-and-grab motion of her hands to her mouth, a bunch of old time people in gold frames looked down from the wall. New track lighting had just been installed the day Rusty and the Old Man strapped new bookshelves to that wall right before Healing House opened. Some kind of earthquake protection required by a government agency. Were there people in the government who oversaw crazy people? If so, why didn't they govern the Old Man from beating the skin off his back when he was deep in a whiskey bottle and mad at anything that moved?

The old man had caught him napping that day. He was on one of the couches Charlene Hightman was flopped out on. Nobody else was around when they showed up, so the old man went out to the truck for his bottle, which Rusty judged from experience as safe for a little shut-eye. He must have slept too long because the next thing he knew, the old man was whaling the shit out of him. You get woken up out of a dead sleep with some asshole twice your size stropping your back with a belt and you're not in your right head for a minute. Rusty remembered a dazed feeling of helplessness. He covered his head and neck with his hands like you would against a bear but he was doing it to preserve what was left of his hearing. The old man was muttering, "Lazy cocksucking cunt! Lazy cocksucking cunt!" with every blow.

Somewhere in the middle of the shit storm, Dr. Hazey charged in and yanked the old man off. Rusty couldn't exactly recollect what had been said to get the old man to lay off but he had a clear recollection of himself lying curled up on his side, his back and kidneys on fire, looking up at the wall with a whole jury of people staring down at him.

It was all old people. Not old, exactly, some were kids, but they were all from olden times, historical people from ages ago---old women in black scarves down to their eyebrows and soldiers in Nazi helmets, a fat cook in a white apron. Most of them were working people, it looked like; they were outside, or at work, not in big fancy houses. Still, they made him feel small, like they were standing in their own shoes but their being situation in life made him question his own. Who are you? they seemed to ask. Who the fuck are you?

If there was one thing he knew it was that he, Rusty Harrow, was a lazy cocksucking cunt. His old man had said he was a lazy cocksucking cunt for as long as he could remember and now there were twenty-five or thirty people on the wall, every one of them with agreement in their eyes.

Hazey had tried to convince Rusty to call the cops on the old man but how stupid was that? The old man would just beat him with a two-by-four when he got him cornered at home. As beatings went, a few stripes on his back weren't worth making a mountain outa a molehill.

Strange. He hadn't thought about the Old Man since he'd burned him up. He blamed it on seeing that wall of old time people behind Charlene after all these years. They were looking at her liked they'd looked at him. As if they were damn disappointed.

How long had Rusty been standing at the window mouth breathing? His feet felt like stone, his breath froze like a glob of jizz on the picture window. Charlene was finished with her jumbo bag of Cheetos, asleep with her orange-rimmed mouth open. He practically sprinted across the main part of the house, then humped it along the back of the girl's wing where the black girl slept He was in luck. Though it was too fucking cold to watch her for more than a few minutes, her reading light was still on. She was hunkered down in a mound of blankets with a book. Everything else in the room was dark. In the circle of yellow light, she looked golden. Inviting as a match flame.

It was all he could do not to climb through her window and get warm.

\#
