---
uid: 01KAGWQT3C433ACTGY1ZGJDACN
project: you-da-hoe
source_file: 16. Rachel gets demerits at food fight.docx
converted_date: '2025-11-24T12:14:02.949808'
wordcount: 405
version: 1
---

16\.

"NO! NOT SPINACH AGAIN!\" Ben, the whiner who\'d only been at the program for a month, flicked the limp pile of leaves off his plate onto the tabletop.

Gretchen who dropping a shriveled over-baked yam onto Rachel\'s plate said, \"Put that back on your plate. First warning.\"

Ben glared at her and left the spinach on the table like a gauntlet.

Then Omar, who was sitting next to Ben, scraped his spinach off his plate. A second gauntlet.

Gretchen said evenly, \'Second warning, Ben. First warning, Omar.\"

All twelve people at the dining table quieted waiting for the next move.

Rachel uncertainly took a bite of the limp greens while a cherry tomato beamed like a transit light. Unfortunately it was slimy and had an off taste that made her gag. She spit the bite out, intending to hit the plate, but the glop of masticated spinach plopped onto the table. Not a gauntlet. More like a gob stopper.

Gretchen\'s eyes widened like she was thinking "E tu, Brute", and Rachel was horrified to hear her say, \"You three. Four demerits each. Leave the table.\"

Omar and Ben must have had some kind of pact of solidarity because neither of them moved a muscle. Rachel started to stand but suddenly spinach was flying like green confetti. People were grabbing the greens from the salad bowl and flinging them at each other. Gretchen took a direct hit to the cheek while the yams became more lethal projectiles.

\"Food fight!\"

"Yam this up your ass,\" Omar yelled and Gretchen ducked. Orange yam gunk hit the dining room wall where she'd been standing and slipped down the paint like a runny egg.

Gretchen had a death grip on the call button. Bruce came running from the direction of the office, Margaret from the kitchen.

Margaret thundered in the voice of a drill sergeant. \"Stop! You kids sit down!\" She banged a wooden spoon on the stainless steel bowl that a few leaves of spinach still clung to and a line from a Shakespearean sonnet came to her in the chaos. *That time of year when\...when yellow leaves or none or few do hang\...*

Rachel got her 1st full tilt demerit day. Toilet cleaning, after emergency therapy session and yet another accountability letter. Omar got sent to Isolation. And Ben. Ben went home. What kind of incentive were full demerits when they got you released from hell?

\#
