---
uid: 01KAGVR20SFWH8B3793RKTK09P
project: you-da-hoe
source_file: 18. Rachel meets Margaret's baby Charlie.docx
converted_date: '2025-11-24T17:18:36.678986'
wordcount: 1178
version: 1
---

18\.

MARGARET WHIPPED AROUND THE CORNER followed by a man Rachel didn\'t recognize. They were carrying big boxes so Rachel stopped to the side of the hall and made herself small, so they could pass through.

Margaret nodded thanks. \"Meet Charlie," Margaret said. "He's my baby.\"

Charlie looked like a thin and lean version of Margaret who claimed her butt wasn\'t built for a doublewide. They shared the same brown half-moon eyes and dishwater shade hair, and wide easy smiles.

\"He\'s kind of big for a baby,\" Rachel said, eyeing the tall man in his thirties.

\"You\'re looking at the reason all I have is a high school degree." Margaret laughed and Charlie rolled his eyes.

\"You got the better part of that bargain,\" Charlie said. \"What would you do without me to take your boxes in with the creepy crawly spiders."

\"We\'re putting the ornaments away in the crawl space.\" It was nearing the end of January. Rachel thought it was strange the outside fairy lights were still looping the trees and lighting the windows like Christmas was perpetual in Idaho. She thought it was some kind of weird local tradition.

Both of them were loaded down with boxes stacked high. Charlie\'s stack teetered alarmingly so Rachel said, \"Here. Give me the top one.\"

She followed Margaret who was still gabbing up a storm and Charlie took the rear.

\"How old is he?\" Rachel asked Margaret. Her ears were on alert for what Margaret used the verboten B word. She\'d erased it from own vocabulary the day she woke in a hospital bed with an ache between her legs and a plundered belly.

\"Thirty-three on May 29,\" Margaret said. \"Everybody else was picking up their graduation diplomas and he\'s what they gave me instead.\"

\"Mom!\" Charlie protested. \"She doesn\'t want to hear all that ancient history. Shut up!\"

\"He used to be such a good baby,\" Margaret said sotto voce. Then he turned two and he\'s never given me a moment\'s peace.\"

\"Unless you count the fact that I\'m here to store the boxes with the spiders because you\'re such a chicken.\"

\"Shhhh!\" Margaret holds a finger to her lips. \"She\'ll think I\'m one of the nuts.\"

Rachel couldn\'t help liking Margaret's son. Margaret herself was incorrigible. Everybody else in the treatment program talked about diagnoses and tendencies and bandied terms like bipolar and borderline and DSMIV like they were speaking a foreign psychiatric language. Only Margaret used fruitcake and psycho and crazy. It was against the rules for the patients to use these words \-- Hazey had a pat lecture about how nobody was a diagnosis here in Idaho \-- but Rachel supposed Margaret had to get caught to get in trouble.

Charlie went into the crawl space with the first box on his hands and knees. He had a flashlight in his mouth after the initial try when he said it was \"black as a witch\'s tit.\" Was that an Idahoism? Rachel had already stored up \"shut your pie hole\" and \"crick\" instead of \"creek.\" She added "witch's tit" to her growing list.

The crawl space ran under the girl\'s wing of the sprawling ranch house. The living room and kitchen and dining room where they met for meals and Group made up the central part of the house. The boy's wing extended south of the core, while six girls\' rooms angled in an ell to the east. \"Don\'t push the boxes in too deep,\" Margaret called to Charlie. \"Or we\'ll never find them.\"

Rachel took over feeding boxes to Charlie, pushing them into the dark so he could pull them in to the stash.

\"Is it true you got pregnant in high school or were you joking?\" Rachel asked while they waited for Charlie.

\"Nothing funny about that,\" Margaret said. \"My dad nearly killed me.\"

Rachel remembered the while-lipped anger on her father\'s face when she finally told her parents. Her mom wouldn\'t look at her. She came home to frost and ate meals in a deep freeze and went to bed under layers of quilts and still felt cold.

\"Did you raise him yourself?\"

\"Oh hell no. Hank and I got married in a shotgun wedding. 33 years next April.\"

Margaret who never seemed to miss a trick, said, \"You seem pretty interested in this. Want to tell me why?\"

Rachel shoved the next-to-the-last box into the dark hole. \"Not really,\" she said.

\"Have it your way, honey. Sometimes it\'s nice to talk about your troubles. God knows, I\'ve had a few.\"

Rachel made a quick escape, saying she had to get back to study for a history test. She already had the information down but something about Margaret\'s generous offer of support made her want to burrow under her covers and sob. Would she never lose the feeling of emptiness that always seemed to echo in her flattened belly? She had the stretch marks to prove she once had a baby but where was he? Who took him? Where did he go?

She heard Charlie behind her, calling, \"Spidey, spidey! Look Mom, it\'s a hairy wolf spider just for you.\"

Margaret yipped and Charlie laughed and Rachel sped away until she was practically running to get to her room.

Maybe it was meeting Charlie. Or maybe it was Margaret offering to talk that woke Rachel about midnight from a deep sleep feeling cold.

It turned out she\'d kicked the covers off and the ducting, which had to travel a long distance from main furnace, wasn\'t able to heat the cheaply insulated rooms. She got up and slammed the window which was open 3 or 4 inches shot, not caring if she woke Old Girl because she\'d asked her not to leave the window open when it was below freezing outside.

Old Girl had denied opening the window. She was probably smoking dope near it when Rachel wasn\'t around, leaving it cracked so the smoke could escape. Rachel had never smelled any weed on Old Girl but why else would her roommate dread her hair like a Rastafarian? Wasn\'t ganja like part of the religion?

She lay down and slid deep in the flannel sheets and tried to will herself back to sleep.

The easy laughter between Charlie and Margaret kept reverberating in her brain. The way Margaret's son teased her with the wolf spider and made her scream. All her longing and memories of waking in the hospital with a deflating belly and nothing to replace its solidity had been focused on the loss of an infant. It hit her like a brick between her ears that she was missing an entire *life.* Preschool and kindergarten. Drawings on the refrigerator. Little League and Peewee soccer. High school dramas and prom night. That the baby would be a person with a sense of humor and his own response to his mother and how she treated him over the years had escaped her. She fell asleep thinking *Eensie weensie spider, went up the waterspout, down came the rain and washed the spider ou*t.

\#
