---
uid: 01KAGWF4050J3NA2912W5Q9V87
project: you-da-hoe
source_file: 19. Chase sees his mom turn into a raccoon, Margaret tries to save him.docx
converted_date: '2025-11-24T12:21:22.342661'
wordcount: 1430
version: 1
---

THE BIG ASS WOMAN'S SWEATSHIRT SAID "DON'T MESS WITH ME." She waved Chase Mortimer inside an ordinary ranch house, saying "You're Chase? Welcome to Lost Horizons." At least that's what he thought she said.

She waved him past a big dining table into a room with an insane number of couches.

The woman droned on for a long time about this Horizon Program's rules. As a new resident, he would participate in "four months of Intensive" which got him wondering what experience was more intense than getting rolled about of bed by two strangers who said they were sent by his parents to make him straighten him up and fly right. "Process three times a week" sounded like a hair dye experience and while he wasn't 100% sure, pink might be nice. "No fraternization" was a sorrowful reminder of his fraternity's Friday night Beer Pong that would go on without him. When she asked if he had any food restrictions, Chase, who hadn't eaten for a couple of days, decided cagily that he should keep the fact that weed was the only thing that made him hungry to himself. "Mealtimes were eight, noon, and six, He was lucky he was "right on time for lunch and even luckier since she'd cooked it herself." Chase felt way too wired for food but the second he assessed himself as too wired, a look at his shoe reminded him of a hunger of a different sort. "Can I go to the bathroom?" he said.

"It's right there, that door behind you." Margaret directed him to an icy powder room with a weird cast-iron tub, saying, "I'll tell you when you're done about your roommate, Big Paul. He's kind of Asperbergery, but he won't talk your head off because he never says a word."

Thank God, he'd managed to stash a last snort of cocaine beneath the insole of his Nikes

nineteen hours ago, when two unsmiling men with matching NRA ties, had dragooned him away from his dorm in Middlebury, Vermont. He was at the end of a three-day drug and booze fest that had been preceded by months of an upsy-down-daisy-chain of wake-up amphetamines and go-to-sleep downers, that is, freshman year at Middlebury College as he was enjoying it.

Matthias, the wiry, tense escort with the long face, had strip-searched Chase down to his underwear while Aldus, the fat one popping Mentos like a chain smoker, packed his duffle bag with ruthless efficiency. Neither escort had the courage to stick a nose into Chases' running shoes; hence the heartfelt Hallelujah Chorus Chase hummed to himself as he shook out a thin line of white on the counter.

He bent to the line the way a man dying of hunger bends to an all-u-can-eat buffet and Hoovered up a sustaining snort regretting that this was the last of his stash, not wanting to think about how the hell he was going to replace it in the middle of fucked-up Idaho where his fucking parents had locked him up at a fucking psychiatric treatment program designed to keep him from fucking around.

A movement beyond the small square window in the bathroom interrupted Chase's revery.

A furry, feral creature with a black mask stared at him through the pane with a look of disapproval. Chase's heart rate was already rocketing---this was good New Jersey shit that he'd stolen from his dealer before the stingy shit had a chance to cut it. What? Chase wanted to ask the masked bandit. What do you know that I don't?

The creature had a gray neck ruff. Black bands encircled its body. A bushy black-and-white striped tail floated behind its humped back like a pirate's flag.

Chase had only snorted a tiny squiff.

Three quarters of the line remained.

One part of his brain registered judgment in black beady eyes. The rest of his brain took in its tilted ear, a pointy muzzle, gray elf-size fingers holding up the grapefruit rind to Chase like a chalice.

The raccoon looked so much like Chase's mother his heart stuttered in quick-time. For an instant, he wondered if perhaps it was a good thing he was in Idaho at a treatment center if he was going to be visited by his grapefruit-eating mother who seemed to have changed herself from a New Jersey socialite into a ring-tailed bandit. The sight of a second racoon looming behind the first one pushed Mom to the side and replaced her with a snarl of razor-sharp teeth.

It let out a high-pitched yowl that reminded him of two hos fighting over a John in Times Square. Then stripes and slashing claws turned into a hellish moil of fur and teeth.

Boom! Boom! Boom! Loud raps shook the powder room door. "Yo!\"You OK in there? Need any help?" A woman's voice seemed to enter the room with him.

Chase sneezed through abused sinuses, dimly registering the spray of red mist that dotted the oak counter top like a rash. It felt like he'd been snorting sand in his lungs for a week.

"Uhhhh..." He put one hand over his rabbiting heart. "Is there.... something throwing garbage outside?"

The woman out in the hall suck in a deep indignant breath. The name 'Margaret' came to Chase from a long distance away. "Son of a bitch!" she cried. "The little motherfuckers!"

Chase exited the bathroom in a kind of shellshock. He wandered into a living room, adjoined by a dining room. Peeked down a long hall of closed doors. He was expecting the big woman who'd greeted him to get up in his grill about how long he'd been in the john. Strangely, she was gone. The living area, where he settled on one of the many couches, was empty. Silent as a church.

Chase sat in front of a big picture window where half a dozen raccoons milled around a mess of overturned garbage cans in the parking area. He tried unsuccessfully to shake off the feeling that his heart was going to carry off his body. He was aware that raccoons were a normal phenomenon in the American west. He'd seen them in the Hamptons where Mom and Dad had a Cape Cod-style house between the home of an investment banker and Martha Stewart.

A baby-sized raccoon teetered on the rim of one garbage bin, then dropped abruptly into the dark maw.

The sight of big-assed Margaret stomping past the window with a big-ass shotgun raised to her big-ass shoulder increased his feeling of unreality. Get me out of here, he was thinking, as the rifle stock came up and pressed itself to her eye socket.

The cute masked critter that looked like his mother was immediately transformed into red and gray mist from the force of the big-ass rifle.

When Chase uncovered his eyes, all was stillness. A limp, dark carcass sprawled amid salad slime and crumpled newspapers in a halo of pink-tinged snow.

The boy's chest was banging like a drum in the back of his throat. Pain jackhammered in his ears when a bright burst of light split his brain wide open like a cantaloupe.

By the time Margaret got back to the living room, the new kid---Chaz? Chester? Chasen? \-- was passed out on a couch. She couldn't figure out what the hell was wrong with him so she leaned over and shook him.

She'd been standing around for a long time outside the bathroom waiting for him to finish so she could explain the rest of the rules and then she'd had to run outside to chase off those fucking raccoon who'd gotten into the garbage again before Dr. Hazey arrived with the Certification Review Board. She'd have done anything to avoid a shit fit after Hazey had declared jihad on the coons. The boy had seemed fine when he arrived, hung over, maybe a little strung out, just like every other kid who came to the Program with an escort.

Was he asleep now? Playing possum?

She watched his chest, expecting to see it rise and fall. Instead, a vein jumped erratically in his neck. When she tried to count his heart beat, she lost track of the erratic stutter. She flipped his body up to sitting, then forced his head down between his knees, pushing it below the level of his chest to help his blood pressure level out while she speed-dialed 9-1-1.

Shit in a shoe!

Hazey didn't pay her nearly enough. A kid barely out of high school was dying in her arms of heart failure.

\#
