---
uid: 01KAGVY57RBVHE5V9ETWA8A8EA
project: you-da-hoe
source_file: 20. Hazey impresses the certification review board with raccoons.docx
converted_date: '2025-11-24T12:26:02.396280'
wordcount: 983
version: 1
---

20\.

HAZEY HAS DONE EVERYTHING HUMANLY possible to prepare for the Certification Review Board.

Staff: prepped, processed and protocolled.

Rules and regulations drilled into every employee and memorized on pain of dismemberment.

Facility: carpets cleaned, walls scrubbed, new primer and fresh latex paint except for the spot where they'd had to cut in new dry wall over the hole that Dani had punched in the laundry room. All the photos dusted and straight.

Dietetics: new color menus, printed calorie counts, optional meal plans for vegetarians, vegans, the gluten intolerant.

Kids: bribed and brow beaten to behave in exchange for all the pizza they could eat along with an extortionate D.J. signed up to spin every rap hate song on the parental discretion list.

He'd thought of everything.

He'd picked up the Certification Review Panel members at the Spokane Airport in his Lexus and he was now busy pointing out the record snowfall to the reviewers as he ferried them to Coeur D'Alene. Snow berms along I-90 reached as higher than the one-story bungalows that lined the highway. All three of the reviewers, Seattle natives used to damp and wet, were bundled up like North Face eskimos.

At one point on the drive, the sky cleared to glacial blue and the weak winter sun spangled the white caps on Lake Coeur D'Alene and the two female reviewers in the back seat squealed appreciatively. Even the sober-faced head of the committee, Dr. Edward Obadiah, whistled a low, musical tone. "God's country," Hazey said modestly to all-around nods. He suppressed his habit of amending the phrase to "God-Forsaken Country" without a hitch. Lumpy cumulus clouds promised another snow dump before midnight when thankfully, the review committee would be long gone.

Everything had been going so well.

Their first stop had been to the Blue Horizons, the halfway house where kids who'd graduated from lock-down in Intensive were able to able to attend college or work and live on their own with minimal supervision. Hazey told them it was part of the Inner Horizon's grand plan to offer clients a re-entry phase to real life.

A process group had been underway. No one showboated or exchanged blows. Chocolate chip cookies were baking in the kitchen so the house smelled just like home sweet home (Hazey had cadged this trick from his real estate agent.) Per instructions, the dining table was set with white table cloth and Delft-blue China plates and matching silver. No steak knives, of course.

Even Dr. Hazey who knew better, thought the Blue Horizons part of the tour projected total serenity and security and order. It was like seeing whole cloth woven out of the patched-together tattered truth, which was usually angry, and cursing young people acting out in worn surroundings where the walls had been repainted and the dry wall patches were still wet.

He almost didn't extend the tour to Healing House. He could have held off the iffiest part of the tour till it was double staffed to keep everyone on his best behavior. Still, staff and residents all had their marching orders on pain of death, so in a moment of poorly placed optimism, he decided to ignore the fact that it was perilously close to the 4 PM cyanide hour when both infants and psychiatric patients tended to fall apart like time bombs in the late afternoon.

He knew it was a bad omen when an ambulance roared past the car on Strenger Road barely a mile from Healing House. Only the town dump was located beyond them and people usually dropped things at the dump instead of trying to resurrect them. What the hay?

A hearse-length white ambulance was parked right in front of the Healing House doors. Hazey pulled his Lexus SUV up behind it, next to the garbage bins.

Hazey clumped around the front of the SUV in big rubber packs, knowing the snow and ice was treacherous in soft-soled shoes. He was just in time to see Dr. Obadiah planting one Italian leather loafer on a slick of salad slime.

Haley was having one of those life-altering elastic moments when time slows down and it was almost possible to measure one's own heart beats while the pause between them felt like a little death. The leg in the gray knife-pleated pants shot up in the air. A leather-gloved hand flew toward the sky to clutch at nothingness. The infinitesimal glide of a smooth sole on a sheen of ice. The sober-featured Dr. Obadiah with four advanced degrees in psychiatry and an MBA in public health as well as business administration went down like a brick of heavy expectations.

His oiled black hair was haloed by a dark blotch of coffee grounds. One hand stretched above his head with the index finger pointing to a pink grapefruit and Hazey had a vision of Michelangelo's Sistine Chapel portrait of God touching life---or was it death?---into Adam.

The door to Healing House banged open. A gurney pushed by two medics trundled out with a white figure in a body bag. Margaret appeared at the end of the parade. Seeing Hazey, she cried at the top of her lungs, "We lost him!" She rushed toward him like a Mack truck and Hazey could barely understand her rush of agonized words. "Iwentouttochasetheraccoons! He wasalreeadygonebythetimeIgotback!"

Off to his right, the two women who are clucking and brushing off the snow on his top-coated back are helping Dr. Obadiah to his feet. Hazey is bending over and yanking at the strings to the top of the body bag.

He has no idea who the kid is when the bag finally reveals its contents. It's a young man, a boy really, perhaps in his early twenties. He is pale as ash. Slightly acne-spotted with a sparse beard and expensively orthodontured teeth. His lips are pulled back in a grinning rictus of death.

\#
