---
uid: 01KAGVS1DSMHQHR5FX6WZJE2BW
project: you-da-hoe
source_file: 21.  Old Girl lets Margaret comfort her.docx
converted_date: '2025-11-24T17:18:29.133410'
wordcount: 692
version: 1
---

21\.

THIS WAS NOT OLD GIRL'S usual wanting and hoping and scheming to die; this was garden-variety flu or hanta virus or Norovirus, or possibly, if she was lucky, the plague.

In her feverish-and-chilled dreams, a far off siren howled like a raging baby. The mwah-MWAH-mwah-MWAH worked its way under the blankets and the longer she tried to ignore it, the louder it got till it sounded like it was screaming in the sheets with her.

She finally gave up on sleep and peered through sleep-crusted eyes through a crack in the blind. She wasn't crazy. A red fire truck filled up most of Healing House's circular driveway.

Feeling week as a kitten, she clawed the heaviest Pendleton blanket off the bed and wrapped it around her shoulders Indian-style.

By the time she crept the length of the hall, using the wall to steady her, firefighters in blue and neon-striped uniforms were boiling through the entryway.

All she could think in her addled state was that the arsonist was back. She couldn't smell a damn thing through her clotted sinuses. Where was the fire? The axes and hoses? Why weren't they evacuating Healing House?

A dozen or so large men milled around the living room watching two firefighters who seemed to be trussing a boy on the carpet. They were packing him like a sausage in something white and waxy like the paper they used at the meat locker.

A woman and a man herked and jerked a white sack thing up and over a pair of skinny legs. Adidas-clad striped feet, then hipster jeans-clad legs, then a Bard College sweatshirt that had seen better days, disappeared in a white sac. Just before the female, who was wearing a Kevlar vest, cinched a knot tight over the head, Old Girl glimpsed a white angular face with a scraggly van Dyke on the chin. Nobody she recognized. Old Girl had witnessed some weird stuff on the plaid couch that was front and center in all kinds of peer group shit, but seeing the face of stranger disappear into a body bag had to be the weirdest.

Margaret, encircled in the arms of a firefighter, kept stuttering. "I tried\--I tried---I tried." Her next words came out in a anguished rush---"hisheartwouldn'trestart!"---and the bearded man patiently kept pat-a-pat-patting her broad back. The man-sized red plaid shirt had rucked up to her waist, calling attention to Margaret's square and motherly ass.

"How long did you do compressions?" asked the fireman.

"Twenty? \-- I don't know. Twenty-five minutes?"

Margaret sniffed, her red eyes bleary. "I called in to dispatch, then rolled him onto the floor."

"He was on the couch when you found him?"

"Out cold when I came in from those fucking raccoons."

The front door was propped open to the snow-humped lawn. Cold air made the entry a refrigerator and Old Girl felt the chill reaching out towards her.

She inadvertently moaned and Margaret's head jerked up from the firefighter's shoulder. "Oh, honey, you shouldn't be out of bed!" she cried.

Margaret abandoned the firefighter. She made right for Old Girl. "Don't come in here! You don't need to see this," she was saying, as the white oblong bag rolled out the door on a gurney like some mystery that could never be explained.

Margaret's meat-packer arms went out and the next thing Old Girl knew---she, who never allowed herself to be manhandled, who always shied away from human contact---Old Girl found herself enfolded onto Margaret's bosom. With her nose pushed into the vee between Margaret's size Double-Ds, she could smell Tide and cinnamon and dog.

Margaret's body heat seemed to fuel a crack in the frozen lake of Old Girl's heart. She listened to the steady lub-lub-lub of Margaret's heart, amplified by the great breasts pressed up against Old Girl's ears like two flesh-and-blood conch shells. Instead of feeling smothered, as she expected, she was shocked at how safe she felt.

What could she do? Old Girl leaned into Margaret's pillowy heat, away from the cold air blasting in from the Idaho winter, and she let Margaret pat her back with warm, chapped hands.

\#
