---
uid: 01KAGWHCT8S0WB27D3ZDF8C29W
project: you-da-hoe
source_file: 23. Lydia hears how Lorenzo's dad threw him out.docx
converted_date: '2025-11-24T12:20:48.085525'
wordcount: 1349
version: 1
---

23\.

AFTER THEIR FIRST COFFEE DATE, Lydia and Lorenzo started meeting at the cafeteria during the 10 o\'clock break between classes.

They both saved up their change and made a show of buying the other one\'s coffee like it was a four-course meal. He was broke; she was broke. It felt even-Steven but also fair, which was quite a switch for Lydia whose Jewish grandmother had drummed into her that a lady lets the gentleman pay. It was true that Lorenzo was the gentlest man she\'d ever met.

It was on one of the days that she paid that she asked him how his family threw him out.

\"I don\'t think you\'d understand,\" he said. \"It\'s a Mormon thing.\"

\"Did you break some rule? Have sex with the minister\'s daughter?\"

\"We have deacons.\"

\"The deacon\'s daughter then?\"

\"Nothing like that.\" He stirred more sugar in his coffee \-- he\'d already dumped in two packets, and added a third.

\"Source of nutrition?\" she pointed at the stack of empty packets.

\"Got a sweet tooth that won\'t quit.\"

\"Tell me,\" she said. \"I\'m not going to judge you.\"

\"It\'s not you I\'m worried about,\" he muttered.

The one thing Lydia had learned in the hours and hours of individual therapy and group grope was that talking about your hurts, as horrible and flesh tearing as it was, did make you feel better. Not immediately, of course. Not while you were trying to endure the feeling of being flayed down to your subcutaneous flesh only to see that you were seething with maggots. But later, you inched forward. The maggots graduated to blowflies and maybe you got a glimmer that they might eventually fly off.

\"So I told you I grew up in Utah. A little town called Hilldale.\"

She didn\'t know Hilldale from Hialeah but the name seemed important to him.

\"It\'s a plural marriage community. One of the early Mormon settlements when Joseph Smith and the prophets settled in Salt Lake. It was kind of a splinter group that broke off from the main church when the stake cracked down on multiple."

Lydia sat forward on her chair. She wished she\'d paid more attention in American History back in Grosse Point but she\'d been more interested in boys from about 13 on. "Are you talking about polygamy? Like one guy and a bunch of women?\"

\"Not usually a bunch. More like two or three depending on how wealthy the man is.\"

\"What does money have to do with it?\"

\"If a man marries two or three wives, he\'s got to be able to pay for their housing and food and take care of the kids. My real dad died when I was little. So my mom remarried when I was 11 to a man who already had three wives and 23 kids.\"

\"Wow.\" All Lydia could think of was that you'd have to have a hella-big dining room table to seat that many people.

\"His name is Lorenzo Herriman\--and he\'s a son of a bitch.\"

She\'d never heard a swear word come out of Lorenzo\'s mouth. It seemed to underline his attitude to his mother\'s husband.

\"What\'d he do?\"

\"When I was 17 I got friendly with a girl he had his eye on. He threw me out the day I turned 18. He said it was because I was legal, but he just wanted to get me out of \_\_\_\_ so I didn\'t get in his way.\"

\"Hold up a second,\" Lydia said. \"Lorenzo\'s got four wives, including your mother? And he wanted another one? The guy\'s like, what? Forty? Fifty? And he\'s got four women and now he wants a 15-year-old. That\'s sick.\"

\"You don\'t understand...\"

\"I understand plenty. He's a horn dog. God, can you imagine having sex with a 50-year-old? That\'s disgusting!\"

Lydia was thinking of her mother's latest ex-husband, Floyd. He had a dropping 50-year-old body\--she\'d seen him with his shirt off, piloting his big yacht with a highball in one hand, wearing a captain\'s hat, his man-boobs separated by a silvery patch of silver back gorilla hair. She shuddered.

\"You\'re going to be 50 at some point,\" Lorenzo laughed at her. \"It\'s not the end of the world.\"

\"I hope it\'s the end of sex,\" she said.

Lorenzo looked away from her, a pink flush creeping up his cheek. Mormons, she thought. They have fifty million kids and what? It\'s the virgin birth? \"So who was the girl your stepfather had an eye on?\"

\"Orphah was my cousin. On my mom\'s side.\"

\"Eww. Isn\'t that a little incestuous?\"

\"Half of Hildale is related to each other,\" Lorenzo said. \"Most of the families go way back to the 1850s. It was a big deal when they outlawed plural marriage back in the day. That\'s why they broke off from the main church and became FLDS.\"

\"FLDS? What\'s that? It sounds like Noah\'s Ark. Flood? Get it?"

\"You\'re a nut,\" he said. \"A funny nut. FLDS stands for Fundamentalist Latter Day Saint. We\'re the cast-offs of the Mormon religion.\"

He was silent.

\"It must be hard," she said.

\"You have no idea." With his little Charlie Brown crinkly smile, he didn\'t remind her of the evil Jack-in-the box anymore. He looked like a big, lonely red-headed boy with big feet and a broken heart. Usually she associated big feet with a big dick, she realized. Was she becoming more mature without even knowing it? Nah, she thought. It would take more than that for the daughter of a cougar to change its spots.

Lorenzo shrugged. \"I was surplus, so he gave me \$100 and put me on a Greyhound bus to Salt Lake City.\"

\"What\'d your mom do?\"

\"You don\'t understand. When you go into a plural marriage, the man is God. You\'re sealed forever.\"

\"Sealed? What does that mean. Locked up?"

\"No, sealed like in a religious ceremony. It\'s a fundamentalist Mormon thing.\"

\"How\'d you get to Couer D'Alaine?"

\"One of Mom\'s cousins lives in Sand Point.I stayed with him and his family for a couple months but he lost his job. I was making it hard for them.\"

He finished the last sip of coffee and stood. \"Now you know why I drink coffee. I kind of lost my faith along the way.\"

Lydia didn\'t know what to say. The story was so astonishingly surreal. Lorenzo might as well have told her he\'d been abducted by aliens and then jettisoned over Coeur d\'Alene in a parachute.

\"Do you talk to your mom now?" she asked.

\"Not a lot. When I can afford to call,\" he said.

Lydia felt the weight of a Judith Lieberbag she'd been holding on her lap. It was sequined with cut crystal beading, about as out of place in Idaho as a Rolls Royce. Every other girl at North Idaho Community College carried Juicy Couture or maybe Michael Kors knock-off bags and Lydia minced along with a bag that cost more than most of them made in a year at Target.

It was shaped like a cat, a Cheshire cat with a white toothed, diamond-studded smile, and she's stolen it from her mother\'s closet. She doubted her mother even missed it \-- probably not since she had about twenty Judith Lieber bags plus an impressive array of Badgley Mischkas and Bottega Venetas and Pradas and every other designer you could name.

Once Lydia made the mistake of saying to Old Girl, \"Hey, I\'ve got a kitty purse, too.\" Old Girl set her scuffed and worn Hello Kitty backpack next to the shiny grinning cat . It looked even dirtier and bedraggled next to the Judith Lieber bling. \"Oh look what the cat drug in,\" Old Girl said. \"A dead kitty.\"

Lydia amazed herself by pushing the bag across the table. "This is worth a lot. Maybe you could sell it."

He looked at the cat like it might claw him. "I couldn't!"

"Why not?"

"Cats make me sneeze," he said. "I'm allergic."

"I'd give you Benadryl but the pharmacy only takes cash."

"Not cats?"

"Take the fucking bag, Lorenzo."

\#
