---
uid: 01KAGVVHF7A9HKB8VBF2RR9QXM
project: you-da-hoe
source_file: 24. Margaret's day ends with meeting Macklemore.docx
converted_date: '2025-11-24T17:18:12.428680'
wordcount: 1590
version: 1
---

24\.

MARGARET'S ALARM WENT OFF LIKE a gunshot and she slapped it into silence. Thank God, Hank, who\'d tossed and turned and been up and down half the night, settled back into the flannel sheets with a snore. As usual, he was sitting up to sleep because his back hurt too much to lay flat. Mouth open, air whistling in the back of his throat, he looked half dead in his stupor. Margaret couldn\'t remember when he\'d gotten gray. In her mind, her husband went from a laughing, burly man with a nearly constant hard-on to a gray face of pain within a week of torquing his back.

In the dark of the upstairs bedroom, she pulled on pants and a flannel shirt and heavy wool socks. She tiptoed down the wooden stairs carrying her son Lloyd's old packs, trying to be fifty pounds lighter over the squeaky treads.

She set out the cereal boxes and brought the milk in from the Pleasant Meadow delivery box and muttered "Dammit" under her breath because she\'d forgotten to put the empty milk bottles out last night. Hank used to put the bottles out like clockwork but now that he was so heavy into Dilaudid, he was lucky to remember his own name. When he was seeing double in the hospital, Margaret finally got him to laugh by saying, \"If my butt is looking bigger, it\'s only the drugs.\"

While she boiled water for instant coffee, she ate at the sink standing up and thought about her to-do list at work.

It was like the list of work to be done at home. It grew like beaver's teeth and if she didn\'t chip away at it, it would eventually outgrow her ability to choke it down.

Pain changed brain chemistry, she remembered the spine doctor saying when he showed the two of them the x-rays of the narrowing in Hank's spinal column. Stenosis. It was pinching the nerves.

She kicked her way across the cow field through snow crust hauling a 5 gallon bucket of water to the trough so the heifers could get a drink. They hovered around her dim shape in the dark, smelling of manure and alfalfa that she\'d forked out of the hayrick. \"Hey, boss. Hey boss." She crooned her way through them with another bucket.

She cupped dog food into the bowl with her bare hands. Chip, the border collie, was Hank's dog and he whined at her knees pushing his nose into her crotch which was as close as Margaret was going to get to being touched there until after Hank's surgery. \"You're pathetic, she told herself. What kind of sad sack enjoys being goosed by a dog?

By the time she left for work, she\'d dry-mopped the kitchen, put away the dishes in the rack, and turned on the crock pot for the Hungarian goulash with potatoes she grew in her garden last summer. Hank had been able to spade the clods of dirt so she could pick out the spuds that were sitting on the kitchen counter waiting to be scrubbed. She\'d left them for her husband, knowing he\'d enjoy helping her with something he could do standing up.

Her eyes felt like sandpaper after her restless night. But there was no way she\'d sleep in the spare bedroom and abandon her husband to his pain. About the only solace they had was hip to hip in the flannel sheets. The sound of each other\'s breathing in the dark. It was something.

How were they going to pay for surgery? Without Hank\'s nursing income, things were tight as it was. They had insurance but it was shitty. A deductible that would choke a horse. Maybe if she could talk Hazey into full time hours they\'d give her benefits. Dental coverage! Vision care! She couldn\'t help laughing at her younger self when all she could think about was getting in the back seat of Hank\'s Dad's Buick. How the mighty are fallen over crappy insurance.

To top it off, Hazey\'s derelict old van crapped out on the way into town to take the kids to NICC. Fuck a duck. Nine kids and Margaret waited by the side of the road an hour for Triple A.

Gretchen came and picked up four of the kids in her little tin-can Pinto, a winter hazard in the snow that confirmed for the millionth time that getting a college degree didn't have a damn thing to do with common sense. How they got Big Paul into the back seat was a mystery.

James and Lydia and Rachel all had late classes so Margaret kept them behind with Reza, the math wizard who could miss all his classes and still get As.

Luckily, her son Charlie was off work so she called him and he came by in his new SUV and loaned it to her, so she could get the rest of the kids to school. Charlie said he\'d stay with the van and ride in with the tow truck driver.

\"Thanks, honey. You\'re a good kid.\"

\"Raised by the best,\" he said. "Plus you\'d beat my ass if I wasn\'t.\"

Her last view of Charlie in the rear view mirror showed him spraying the windshield of the filthy van with the Windex she kept in between the seats. She hadn\'t had a chance to clean it and the windshield glass was filthy because Hazey was too cheap to let them take the company cars to the car wash more than once a month.

No surprise. Lydia commandeered the front seat of the SUV, calling "Shot gun!". She screamed at the top of her lungs when she pulled a CD from the case Charlie kept in the pocket well. \"Macklemore! OMG, I\'ve died and gone to heaven!\"

Lydia cranked Charlie's sound system up to Def-Con Five. A drumbeat like the pulse of a giant heart lifted the car off its shocks.

Margaret liked music. She thought Inner Horizon's rule about making the kids "deplug from constant stimulation" was stupid. What would a little music hurt? she was thinking, about the time a rapper's insistent voice took over the pulsing beat. Maybe Hazey was right about rap. The stabbing voice, the hand jabbing gestures, those boys who waddled duck-legged to keep their pants from falling down around their ankles!

Meanwhile, Reza began to declaim word for word with the rapper. The other kids hollered and clapped and shook their fists in the air.

So this is how to channel ADHD, Margaret thought.

"Labels out there now they can't tell me nothing. We give that to the people. Spread it across the country." Reza and the rapper rattled in perfect sync.

And then the voice shifted from rap-shout to actual singing and everybody in the car lifted their voices and joined in. James, Lydia, Rachel and Reza sang at the top of their lungs to an anthem that even Margaret tapped her toes to. "...this is the moment. So we put our hands up like the ceiling can't hold us, like the ceiling can't hold us!"

The skirmishes with Gretchen, Margaret's disappointments and despair of Hazey, her half-irritation and half-sorrow at Lydia's hangdog face and Old Girl's down-turned mouth began to recede and Margaret, who loved music, went from an insane desire to turn off the sound system to an even more incendiary desire to leave it on and scream with the singer when he called, "This is the moment. Put your hands up! Like the ceiling can't hold us. Like the ceiling can't hold us!"

Rachel, who was soft-spoken and quiet, sang in a clear bell-like voice. \"Can we go back, this is the moment/Tonight is the night, we\'ll dance till it\'s over.\" Reza and James chanted with her. \"So we put our hands up, like the ceiling can\'t hold us, like the ceiling can\'t hold us.\"

They barreled along between snow-covered meadows ringed with blue trees. Underneath new, grippy tires, the road was bare and wet, with no ice to worry about, so Margaret could relax and let go of the feeling she was taking the life of the kids in her hands in that rattle trap van. She cranked the heat up to high to thaw everybody out after their hour\'s wait by the side of the road. And the singing and rocking they were all doing made the Explorer seem like a little island of warmth and community with some rapper named Macklemore an integral part of their tight knit group.

When Lydia hopped out at the Student Union drop-off, she surprised the hell out of Margaret by saying "Thanks" and smiling with both eyes and teeth. "See you at three," she said.

Who knew Lydia actually knew the time of pick-up because she'd never been there on time in her life.

Then Reza and James and Rachel climbed out and James handed Rachel her back pack, like a knight, and before James slammed the door, he stuck his blond head back into the car, all six-feet of surfer beauty, in that moment between youth and adulthood when he would never be more beautiful, and said, "Thanks for the sing-along. You're the best."

Margaret put the SUV in drive and cruised back to Healing House feeling like she'd finally done something right. She punched track 2 and the rapper---hecalled himself Macklemore?---sang out, "Ay, Ay, Let's go!"

Margaret belted at the top of her 53-year-old lungs, \"like the ceiling can\'t hold us\" every time the chorus came around.

\#
