---
uid: 01KAGWH7KSRW78AWMK1N4GV9GN
project: you-da-hoe
source_file: 25. James fails at his Accountability Letter.docx
converted_date: '2025-11-24T12:20:50.007837'
wordcount: 2536
version: 1
---

\<\$W\>

"ARE YOU, LIKE, THE ONLY BLACK person in Idaho?" James asked Josh, his therapist on the day he was supposed to read his Impact Letter to his parents.

Dr. Joshua Isaiah Samuelson, Ph.D, to the world, and Josh to James, raised one eyebrow. "There's my wife."

James wanted to kill time until his parents called in on the conference line for their weekly Family Therapy Call.

"One time I saw you walking downtown and people turned around to look at you so fast you could hear the wind whip through their ears."

"Feeling anxious, are you?"

To say James would rather swallow glass than read his Impact Letter was putting it mildly.

"I'll be on the hot seat soon enough. Seriously, don't you feel weird being different?"

Josh shrugged. "Anybody different always stands out."

James, blond, blue-eyed, basketball-fit, fit right in with the Aryan Nation headquartered at nearby Priest Lake, Idaho. Still, he wouldn't have been surprised to learn that there was a secret Inner Horizons pheromone that telegraphed "misfit!" to anyone who came within a hundred yards of him. Was that how the Mormon polygamist's wives felt?

Yesterday, he had seen two blond young girls, at the most 15 or 16, shopping at Osco Drug in long pioneer dresses. Both girls had strange Elvis-type pompadours over their foreheads that cascaded into intricate rolls of braided hair down their backs. James couldn't figure out the physics of the braids. If he'd had a sister who was into hair dressing, instead of calculus, he would have asked her how they did it.

\"Any advice on how to get through this?"

"Tell the truth. Be real."

James was unconvinced of the value of reality; he'd been successfully avoiding it for years. Duh-DUT. Duh-DUT. Duh-DUT. Somebody with a sick sense of humor had reprogrammed the conference phone to play the theme song from "Jaws." Last week it had played "Somewhere Over the Rainbow."

"Hi, sweetheart!" Dr Ida, James's mother sounded cheery today unlike last week's ice queen. Dad growled, "Hey Bud." His old pet name for James. James couldn't remember the last time he'd used it.

"Hey." It was only one little word but the sound came out of James half strangled, as if his vocal cords were already seizing up.

Josh started the session by laying down the ground rules. James had spent the last few weeks working on his Impact letter, a response to the Impact letter Dr. and Mr. Olson had written several weeks ago that detailed the events that led up to sending James to Inner Horizons. That's when James had learned the hard way the *real* reason they called it an Impact Letter: the heinous stuff his parents said he'd done hit him like a hail of stones. Now that the lacerations from two weeks ago had scabbed over, James was supposed to open them back up by "taking ownership of his own behaviors." Inner Horizons. Where they flayed your skin off an inch at a time.

Josh nodded at him: Put neck (A) into guillotine (B).

"Mom and Dad, there's been a lot of lying." His words came out low and mumbled, but at least they were out there. He'd lied to them both so many times he couldn't remember telling them the truth.

"Sometimes I stole stuff to get money for drugs." Throat clearing from Dad. Was he thinking about the time James crawled into their bedroom on his stomach and emptied the wallet Dad always kept on the dresser? "Occasionally, I brought drugs into the house." Translation: every day, every hour, every minute he could get his hands on anything psychotropic.

"Excuse me, honey. When you say you stole from us, are you talking about taking Grandpa's coin collection?" Dr. Ida interrupted James' suffering flow.

"Or the house money?\" Dad asked.

Hey, if they could put Tylenol on the grocery list, why not uppers? Downers? James thought.

Dad said, "I wonder if you could talk specifics. Saying you stole from us is kind of general. We noticed money going missing.

Stay above the surface, he told himself. The only way to get through a quagmire was to hop from one bobbing hummock to another; if he stepped in the quicksand of explanation, he'd sink in slime over his head. Tonelessly, he answered, "Both."

Dad pressed on."Your mother thinks you've been writing prescriptions and signing her name. "

Poke me with a sharp stick and I poke back: The ancient path of their fights, deep as a wagon rut, opened before James like a well-known thoroughfare. "Cut me some slack here! Can't you give me some credit? I'm trying?"

Josh interjected in a calm voice. "I didn't hear your dad accusing you," he said to James. "He was just asking you to clarify."

Clarify that I'm a disappointment. Clarify that I'm a liar and a thief and a fuck-up was what James heard. He looked down at the list of behaviors he had painstakingly written and rewritten. He was maybe five admissions into a list that ran single spaced down both sides of his paper. He clarified doggedly on. "There was lot of school skipping."

Dr. Ida's turn. \"Are you going to answer Dad about forging prescriptions? Do you know I can get fired for that?\"

All of Josh's coaching sloughed off like a layer of soggy tissue. James didn't dare open his mouth, because if he did, his voice would crack and there'd be no holding back the howl that wanted to get out. Before Josh could stop him, James reached over and punched the off switch to the phone. A dial tone droned over the speakers. An EKG machine no longer able to register a pulse.

"What's the use?" asked James.

"I'm not the one who feels like the only black person in Idaho," Josh said. "That would be you."

Josh gave him the money to go out in the hall to get a Coke. "Go clear your head," he said."Then come back and we'll talk about it."

James shot the caffeine and came in after washing his face, thinking glumly of that moment at dinner the other night when Estie stabbed Reza in the back of the hand. James had called Reza "monkey boy" right before the blow up because Reza wouldn't pass the meatloaf while he was messing with Estlie. In the aftermath of Estie's removal with her kicking and flailing and screaming at the top of her lungs, Reza was being carted off in a different direction, still howling in pain. James had forgotten all about calling him Monkey Boy until he realized that Rachel had stopped talking to him.

The frigid expression on Rachel's face when he said "monkey boy" reminded him of the ice freeze on Lake Couer d'Alene. If Estie hadn't broken everything loose by forking Reza, Rachel's stare would have sliced him to ribbons.

"Exciting," was Josh's comment, when James told him what happened at dinner.

"Very," said James.

"Bet you'll pass the peas faster next time, won't you."

"You think I'm going to sit next to Estie after that? You're insane."

"No, James. I'm treating you, not the other way around."

"Would you hurry it up? I'd like to be cured and get out of here. My basketball is suffering."

"So would Reza. Do you see that?"

> A long silence. Fucking Josh. Always pointing out the unpleasant smell in the room.
>
> "Are you saying that Reza and I are alike?"
>
> "What do you think?"
>
> "I wish you wouldn't answer every question with another question. It's annoying as shit."
>
> "How do you think Reza feels when you call him Gnat Boy? Or Monkey Man?"
>
> Shit. How did Josh know about that. "How'd you hear about that?"\
> "It's called 'staff meeting', James."
>
> Reza was so annoying it was impossible to see him as anything better than a midget or a gnat. All James wanted to do was to slap him away and now in mid-thought, the idea that they weren't all that different slapped him in the side of the head. Reza was a fuck up. Reza was a different fucked up than James, sure, but James, in his fug of fuckery, was usually too fucked up to acknowledge it. Now that he'd fucked up with his parents, it was easier to admit that perhaps they weren't the only people he had fucked up with. Rachel's face the night of the stabbing had frozen him to the marrow. Now the memory of Reza's hang-dog, accusatory look was making him feel even lower.
>
> "And by the way, quit calling your roommate 'Apu'. It's not cool," Josh said.
>
> James blinked. Who cared what he called Reza. He would drive a saint nuts. James was only human.
>
> "What do you care?" he asked.
>
> "How would you feel if Reza called you a dumb blond or Kewpie Doll?"
>
> "It's not the same."
>
> "It's exactly the same. A stereotype. 'Apu' is what everybody thinks all Indians are. Shopkeepers with high voices. Did you know his dad is the chief economist at Goldman Sachs?"
>
> "No."
>
> "Do you ever talk to him?"
>
> Reza was always talking to James. "Not if I can help it."
>
> "Does he talk to you?"
>
> "Can't get him to shut up. If I talk back, it'll get worse."
>
> "Well start by calling him Reza. Baby steps."
>
> "I thought we were talking about my relationship with Rachel."
>
> "We are."
>
> Hmmm. Josh's cryptical elliptical comments generally had a point. James had worked with him long enough to know that. Was he saying that James was a racist? If not a racist, a stereotyper? A generalizer? Reza didn't remind James of Apu, not really. He was a midge, a gnat, some constantly buzzing, circling insect he was always trying to slap down but Reza was so quick, he'd always got away.
>
> Was it possible there was a real person inside the ADHD, meth-addled package? One could only hope, as his mother liked to say.
>
> "You know Reza's ADHD."
>
> "Half the kids in Malibu are on Adderall. Why isn't he?"\
> "He's on Adderall."
>
> "And this is what he's like on drugs? What, is he a ping pong ball without them?"
>
> It was Josh's turn to roll his eyes. The whites were startling in his polished teak face. "Just cut him some slack is all I'm saying. He doesn't act this way to piss you off. He can't help it."
>
> "Why don't you just help me get a new roommate?"
>
> "Because helping doesn't work that way. What if Reza has something to teach you?"
>
> "Besides 'thou shalt not kill'?"
>
> "Throw him a bone, James. Take Apu out of your vocabulary."
>
> James's mind was running through a list of Apu substitutes: monkey, Simba, orangutang, midget, idiot, shit for brains. Fine, he thought, deep-six Apu and upvote monkey's paw. If Reza woke up screaming again tonight, he was going to put a sock in his mouth.
>
> "He's so annoying!"
>
> "So are you. I don't go around talking like a valley girl to you because you piss me off."
>
> James said stiffly, "I don't do valley speak."
>
> "Like... absolutely, dude. Cowabunga." Josh was shaking his head, smiling.
>
> "Cow-fucking-abung. Matt Gruening had a lot to answer for, thought James. Or was that from the guy who wrote Snoopy? Same diff.
>
> "You're a typical white male of privilege. Good hearted in a lot of ways but also clueless about your roommate. Sure, Reza has annoying qualities. It's not OK to treat him as subhuman."
>
> James thought this was patently unfair. He knew Reza was a human being but humanity was pretty far down on his agenda. He was just trying to get through the day in his own morass of shame and self-loathing.
>
> "Reza has feelings?"
>
> "Of course he has feelings," Josh said. "Use your head."
>
> James head was typically employed in figuring out how to kill him at maim him at various points in the day for irritating the shit out of him.
>
> "Would it kill you to be nice to him once a day?"\
> He'd die of shock, was James' first thought. His second was, or I would.
>
> Thus in small steps do we all make progress toward opening our hearts and letting the other in. But it will be years before James figures that out. He'll work with a young Indian man named Riyad in his thirties who reminds him of Reza. Riyadh is from India. He's Hindi, not a muslim like Reza. James will have grown enough by then to know the difference which wasn't the case when he was in treatment. He will ask, apropos of nothing, what Riyadh's name means. When the slight South Asian man with the same golden-brown coloring as Reza says, "contentment" something will strike a chord. He's amazed when he looks up the name and sees that both Reza and Riyadh are from the same word root and have similar meaning. He has no idea whether Reza ever reached contentment. He wished he'd had the presence of mind to ask him the meaning of his name but since he didn't, he asks Riyadh about his family and the village he comes from and he remembers and uses his name when he sees him after that in the cafeteria.
>
> Reza in his tight whites and undershirt looked undersized and slightly bow legged. His brown hairy legs were wide-set on his hips so he walked like a South Asian cowboy, slopping along in running shoes that he had walked down at the heel like slippers. If he weighed more than 120 pounds, James would have been surprised.
>
> "Didn't your mother feed you enough," he asked suddenly. "You look like you were starving at one time."
>
> Reza blinked. "My dad's a managing partner at Goldman Sachs. My mother would die if she heard you say that. I've always had plenty to eat."
>
> "You're pretty...". James wanted to say 'underfed' and settled on 'skinny.'
>
> "I'm vegetarian," Reza said, like James was a dope. "We don't eat meat. Indian people aren't cow-fat like Americans." He gestured toward James like he was lumping him into all the overweight people they'd seen at Walmart buying huge bags of chips.
>
> "Sorreee," James muttered. This cultural sensitivity stuff was more trying than it looked.
>
> "Look on my bright side, James," Reza said, a minute later.
>
> "Why?"
>
> "When you're fifty, you've weigh over 250 pounds and I'll still be able to wear the same clothes."
>
> "Oh goodie," James said, thinking that'll be the day. Judging from Reza's expression, he was thinking the same exact thing.

\#
