---
uid: 01KAGW8N4KKP8YZ70488CK7XF3
project: you-da-hoe
source_file: 26. MIDPOINT OG stops the bullying of Estie.docx
converted_date: '2025-11-24T12:23:05.499877'
wordcount: 4059
version: 1
---

26\.

OLD GIRL WORKED OFF AND ON all day on her *Animal Farm* paper. It took forever because *Animal Farm* was like a fairy tale compared to the *Lord of the Flies* shit that went down that day.

Three feet of snow had dumped on the Idaho panhandle in twenty-four hours. Even in Coeur D'Alene, where there was one snowplow for every other car, they couldn't clear the roads. Classes at NICC got cancelled. Hardly any of the staff made it in to work so Gretchen and Darlene decided to herd everybody into the living room so that they could keep an eye on them while they tried to do their regular chores.

"It'll be like going from man-to-man to zone defense in basketball," Gretchen said.

"Too bad it's WWA Wrestling," said Darlene.

Princess Dani, queen of the bulimics, and Reza staked a claim to the entire plaid couch. Dani, a volleyball forward before she got kicked out of Ohio State, stretched out all six feet of her like an Amazonian while Reza augured his weaselly self deep in the corner.

James and Rachel colonized the flowered couch until Lydia joined them and then every other chair and love seat and rocker got dibbsed. Old Girl, who was late, had to sit on the orange shag rug, using the plaid couch as a back rest while she wrote.

It was a ten page paper. Thirty percent of her English lit grade. The assignment was to pick some current event from the newspaper and make up an allegory from it using George Orwell's animals. Help me God.

She had read *Animal Farm* before she entered the Program. She didn't like the fable then and she didn't like it any better when she read it again last week. What bothered her was how stupid the farm animals were in the face of relentless tyranny. The persecution of the animals depressed her and she hated how they wouldn't act in their own behalf.

Not unlike how the inmates behaved at Inner Horizons when Darlene announced the snow day.

Then it was a free for all right off the Nature Channel. People staked out their territory and spread themselves out as far as they could in what amounted to a land grab. Gorillas and cobras reacted to an enemy by making themselves look big. It worked in the jungle, so why not at a nut house?

Within the first half hour, the living room looked one of those Wall Street occupier settlements. People dragged in blankets and pillows, baskets of laundry, school notebooks, Pysch 101 and World History and Sociology and Economics textbooks and crib notes and every DBT worksheet they could find; they piled up letters, photographs, scrapbooks, Sharpies of every color, plus stacks of old Self and People Magazine. Reza dragged in his comic book collection and then refused to allow anyone to read them. James worked on overdue shop project and proceeded to hammer little nails while he wasn't stinking up the room with airplane glue .

Darlene ran her regularly therapy sessions out in the hall. For ten minutes every hour, she came in and tried to get them to play games. She started the group out with Monopoly and they played it for ten minutes until Dani and Reza lobbied for Twister. Then Twister got out of hand with too much grab-ass and screaming and Gretchen marched in and made them replace it with Parcheesi. By the time they worked their way through Risk, Trivial Pursuits, Battleship and Checkers, Big Paul got mad at all the switching and snapped the checkers board in half. That was the end of play time.

Old Girl ignored all that and doodled on her notebook pages when she wasn't chewing on the end of her pencil. You were supposed to place all the characters from *Animal Farm* into a setting of your choosing and explain how they worked in your allegorical world. Professor Larson used the country of Myanmar as the example. Old Burma's repressive military regime was a stand-in for Orwell's Manor House and Myanmar's new military regime, that was apparently just as crappy and repressive as the old regime, was the new *Animal Farm*. The Rohinga escapees from Bangalore---or was it Bangladesh? Old Girl couldn't remember---became the quail chicks who got trampled underfoot by a country of sheep. And so on.

It would have been a hell of a lot easier to do the English paper if Inner Horizons would let Old Girl read a newspaper or watch the news on TV. The last current event she was aware of was Idaho's record snow.

She'd put the paper off till the day before it was due. She'd planned to hole up today in the NICC library for research and then pound out a paper in two hours. She was good at pulling stuff out of her ass. Fucking snow day. Now without access to the Internet, she had to make allegory out of some story she already knew.

She supposed there was an argument for allegorizing the stuff that went on at Healing House. It was kind of interesting to imagine what it would be like if Darlene, their own little Napoleon, overthrew Dr. Hazey.

A red Parcheesi pawn flew hit James in the forehead and when he threw it at her and she tossed it under the couch, the Parcheesi heads set up a hue and cry until she hauled it out of the dust bunnies and threw it back to Paul.

Hazey wasn't exactly power mad; he was just weak. People like Darlene who had a God-complex took advantage of his weakness; she was good at making it look like she was acting on the founder's behalf when she was really following her own agenda. Maybe Dr. Hazey *was* like the old Tsar of Russia. Bumbling. Lexus driving and out-of-touch. A leader who couldn't function without a passle of overworked serfs.

Old Girl scribbled "Margaret = Boxer, the overworked horse." The woman was as strong as a Clydesdale and sometimes, particularly when she smiled, she even looked kind of horsey. Clearly, she'd never been to an orthodontist. Maybe braces didn't exist when Margaret was a kid.

She added to her list. "Outside = Sugar Candy Mountain."

On the farm, Sugar Candy Mountain represented the animal's idea of heaven. It seemed like Orwell was making the case that paradise was some stupid concept whose only role was to pacify the masses. Old Girl could make the same case for Outside or Where You Ended Up When You Ran which was Inner Horizon's definition of paradise. If you listened to all the kids who were constantly making plans to run away, it sounded like you got to eat ice cream and steak every day on the Outside. All the money you needed to pay for food or clothes or rent somehow magically ended up in your wallet. Police didn't exist. Neither did pimps or gangs or crack addicts who would roll you just for fun Outside. What a complete crock.

When Gretchen called them to lunch, Old Girl had made some minor progress.

Dr. Hazey = Farmer Jones, former owner of the Manor House = Tsar Nicholas of Old Russia

Darlene = Napoleon the pig = leaders of the Communist revolution

Margaret = Boxer, the hardworking horse that gets sent to the knacker

Gretchen = Squealer = Communist propaganda machine

Or

Gretchen = Snowball = Napoleon's helper who wants to overthrow the current government

Lydia = Rose, the vain horse who collects hair ribbons and wants to eat sugar all day.

Lunch was some inedible stew thing with floating chunks of unidentifiable meat. Lydia picked out a piece of gristle and told people an ear had landed in her bowl. Once that idea got going, there was a major run on the bathroom. Everybody remembered the day Gretchen fed them a casserole that she said was "fiber-rich" and half the house got the runs. The "super-vitamin stew" was what decided Old Girl on switching Darlene's role from Napoleon, the pig dictator, to Squealer, the farm's propagandist. She thumbed through her paperback copy of *Animal Farm* and highlighted the speech Squealer gave the animals in Chapter 3 on why the pigs deserved the best food.

[\"Comrades!\" he cried. \"You do not imagine, I hope, that we pigs are doing this in a spirit of selfishness and privilege? Many of us actually dislike milk and apples. I dislike them myself. Our sole object in taking these things is to preserve our health. Milk and apples (this has been proved by Science, comrades) contain substances absolutely necessary to the well-being of a pig. We pigs are brainworkers. The whole management and organization of this farm depend on us. Day and night we are watching over your welfare. It is for YOUR sake that we drink that milk and eat those apples.\" (3.14)]{.underline}

Jackpot! she thought. Squealer was good at turning black into white and Gretchen was even better at turning shit into stew.

The only break in the day was around 3 pm when Josh, the one staff member with four-wheel drive, dropped Estie off from Stabilization. He'd taken pity on her since she'd been stuck in isolation for two weeks. He commandeered both Gretchen and Darlene to half-shove, half- drag Estie from the car to the living room.

Estie, deep in a haze of Seroquel or Ziprexa or whatever anti-psychotic they used at Stable to calm her down, lolled head-down between them in a state of near catatonia. They tried to lay her out on Dani's couch but Dani had a shit fit and wouldn't share so they finally eased her into half-sitting half-slumping on the carpet next to Old Girl.

Nobody would say why Estie had been locked up at Stable so long. Usually they took you out of general circulation and stuck you there for two or three days, max. The rumor was that Estie went postal on Ethan, the Dialectical Behavior therapist, and clocked him between the ears with a boot. Privately, Old Girl thought she was brain damaged. She'd come into the Program not long after Old Girl came to Adolescents. She'd been in a horrible car accident. An angry scar zippered from one eyebrow to her ear, though over a couple years, it had faded from an angry red to a livid pink.

Everybody at Healing House hated her.

She had no sense of personal boundaries. Worse, she didn't like to bathe. Plus she lumbered with an odd, halting shuffle and it was embarrassing to be seen with her.

Once, when Old Girl went to a dentist with her, Estie couldn't wait to get in the office to pee. She dropped trow in the parking lot. A car stopped at a stoplight honked when they got a load of that big white moon of her ass.

"Jesus! Can't you smell yourself? Get away from me!" Dani started picking on Estie the minute Darlene's back was turned.

Estie, who sat a couple feet from Old Girl, roused herself but when she scooted in Reza's direction, he crossed two fingers at her like a vampire's cross. "Don't you dare! !" The little shit stuck his feet out to block her way until she gave up and slumped down in the same place and nodded off.

Old Girl usually ignored her. She wasn't a motor mouth like Reza or a whiner and a bully like Dani. Mostly Estie kept to herself, staring at the carpet or muttering under her breath. Today, though, in her zombified sad-sack state, Old Girl could smell her an astringent e medicinal smell emitting from her pores. It was hard to even look at her. Bad enough to carry Old Girl's sorrows on her own back without burdening herself with Esty's.

"Paul's a hard-ass and you're a lard ass, Estie. What does that make me?" Reza asked.

She semi-roused herself and muttered, "Dunno."

"A smart ass!" Reza crowed.

Dumb ass, Old Girl wanted to say but contemplated her list instead, while she rolled her pencil in her mouth and tried to find a smooth part of wood to crunch on.

"Dani = Dog Pack Leader" came to her in a sudden thought. But then, if Dani had the big bark and the chomping teeth, who was Reza? He was more like a neurotic bad-tempered Chihuahua. Needle-sharp teeth in five pounds of dog shit.

On a roll with the dog pack idea, she drafted a terrific paragraph about Dani and her bitches; then she went on to draw a detailed comparison between Lydia and Rose, the vain horse in *Animal Farm* who only cared about eating sugar and collecting colorful ribbons to braid in her mane. Lydia's mammoth collection of Judith Lieber and Balenciaga handbags equaled the horse's fixation with silk ribbons and bows. All the bulimic episodes with candy and donuts lined up perfectly with Rose the horse's sugar jones.

She ran into a road block when she tried to figure out what to do with James. He wasn't a sheep. He wasn't a pig. His basketball player height made her think of a giraffe but she couldn't find any tall creatures on Orwell's farm. She wasted time trying to connect him to the windmill the animals built and then finally dumped James as a character. Professor Larson told the class that the best allegories are three-legged dogs. If everything matches one for one, you end up with a fairy tale that no one believes.

Estie snored like a walrus for a good two hours, her head resting back on the couch, her mouth wide open. She finally shook herself awake and lumbered off to the bathroom close to the time Reza and Big Paul started an arm wrestling and kicking contest on the floor. Gretchen had left the living room to answer a phone call and Darlene was having a smoke break. Paul kicked over a pitcher of water that Gretchen had brought in to water the plants before her phone call. The carpet got soaked.

Estie came back and she immediately sat down on the wet spot like a heat seeking missile. Reza and Dani howled with laughter and Esty's brow furrowed with a dumb suffering look. What was so funny?

Reza called out so the whole room could hear him. "Stanker peed her pants and she just came back from the can."

Estie shook her head at him. "I did not."

"Then how come your big stinking ass is wet?"

"It isn't."

The room erupted in yips and hoots. Estie stood up and she turned a broad, cottage-cheesed ass to the group as she tried to peer at her behind over her shoulder. She patted at her backside which was covered with ill-fitting light beige slacks that were darkening with the spreading damp.

Old Girl had been in the kitchen one day last week when she overheard Margaret telling Darlene they needed to order a rubber sheet for Reza's bed. He'd soaked the mattress for the second time in a week. You can bet that if Old Girl had been a bed wetter, she wouldn't have been taunting someone else who couldn't control her bladder. Reza's strategy was apparently to hurt first before they could turn around and hurt him.

Hence the round of jeers that Reza invited everyone to join in.

"Estie needs a diaper!"

"Stinker!"

"Stanker!"

"Not Stanker, Tanker!"

"No, Piss Queen!"

You sure didn't came to a psychiatric treatment program for the wit or you'd starve, Old Girl thought.

In Old Girl's world, there was one simple rule. Mind your own business. If you kept your head down and stayed out of the fray and talked nor engaged with anyone, you would never get hurt. The rule had seen her through two years of continuous hell. And yet watching Esty's eyes glisten with unshed tears, Old Girl's sense of decency and fair play was disturbed.

You didn't kick someone who was drugged to the gills. You didn't fuck with them after two weeks in the hell of isolation where even Old Girl had been so lonely she bawled with relief when they let her out.

At six o'clock, Darlene rang the bell for dinner and called out, "Meat loaf, yay!" to a collective groan.

Old Girl picked a set at the bottom of the table as far away from Gretchen and Darlene as possible. It took her a few minutes to figure out what Dani and Reza's new game was. They must have recruited Paul because he took up the chair across from Estie on the far side of the dining table. Dani plopped down right next to her. Reza grabbed the seat on Esty's other side.

When the meatloaf dish passed to Dani, she forked up a slice for herself, then skittered the platter across the table to Paul, who took a big serving. Paul sent the dish sliding down the table away from Estie. The potatoes arrived and Reza speared five for himself, then sent the platter off in the opposite direction from Estie. He repeated the same action when butter arrived, and Dani mirrored his action with the gray peas. The only food allowed near Estie was the spinach salad that Gretchen had been serving for the past week. The greens had passed their expiration date several days before. The big salad bowl was garnished with three microscopically thin egg slices and a few shriveled mushrooms.

"Hey, Reza, " Esty's eyes were tracking the heaping meat platter. "The meat loaf skipped me."

Reza made sheep's eyes at her. "I passed it to you. You didn't take any."

"Did not."

"Of course you did." Dani slithered into their conversation like a snake in the grass. " Right after I passed you the spuds."

Esty's plate had no spuds. Only a midget-sized dinner roll that the Program allowed people on the "high energy protein" diet which was a euphemism for starvation rations. Skinny Reza was busy shoveling half a stick of butter onto Mt. Spudmore mounded on his plate. "What?" he said. "The potatoes went around twice."

"Not to me, they didn't."

Darlene, who was at the head of the table, sensed something amiss. She interrupted her rant to Gretchen about how she hated driving on black ice and called down to Estie. "Es, what gives? How come you're not eating?"

Estie said, "Reza won't give me any food."

Reza reached for the salad bowl and flopped a gush of dry spinach onto Esty's plate. "Have some greens, Stanker. They make your shit smell sweet."

Estie stared down with a bleak expression of hopelessness. The only piece of carb comfort on the plate was a midget-sized roll next to the glop of over-the-hill spinach. The pure hunger in her eyes was palpable. To Old Girl, it looked like she wasn't just hungry this minute; she was resigning herself to starving for the rest of her life.

Old Girl couldn't have said whether it was the despair or the acceptance on Esty's cow-like face that got her on her feet and moving briskly to Dani's side of the table. She leaned over Dani and hefted up the platter of meat loaf and marched it back to Estie. She was hunkered over her plate and Old Girl banged the half-full platter down next to her, crying, "Feed yourself! Nobody's going to do it for you!"

Reza, intending, Old Girl supposed, to shove the platter away from Estie, reached out for it but Old Girl tethered him by the wrist and forced his hand flat on the table.

"Hey, let go!"

Old Girl tightened her grip and she nodded encouragingly at Estie who already had her fork in one hand and her knife in the other. "Take what you need," she said, tipping her chin toward the meat.

While Old Girl obligingly held Reza's hand flat, Estie stabbed down with her fork and embedded the tines into the back of Reza's hand.

"Owwww!" Reza tried to bolt up from his chair but Estie threw her bulk over his torso and forearm and with both hands, drove the fork deeper into the tabletop, knocking into Old Girl and shoving her to the side.

The dining room erupted into a maelstrom of sound and motion. "Stop!" "Let go!" Crazy cunt!" "Owwwoooooo." People were shouting and plates and glasses and cutlery were crashing from Estie and Reza's thrashing. Darlene & Gretchen bolted into the fracas while Reza's screams rose in volume and a high-pitched hyena's laughter---Dani, naturally--- went on and on.

Old Girl backed away from the fray. She watched the herking-jerking bodies, all the room in motion. Darlene pushing. Gretchen shoving. James reaching across the table and yanking at Reza's arm as he tried to unearth it from Esty's bulk while Reza screamed and protested in pain.

Wow, Old Girl thought. Look at what I did! Who knew that all Estie needed to act for herself was a little help? Old Girl, so used to keeping her head down and resisting every effort to connect, was caught short by the shy sense of accomplishment that was sneaking up on her. She felt proud. As proud as if she'd defeated Napoleon and Snowball and Squealer and the pack of feral dogs with the simple act of passing a platter. Yay, meatloaf, indeed.

And because even a stabbing wouldn't get you out of Clean Up duty at Inner Horizons, Old Girl dutifully began to work her way around the table stacking dirty dishes. She avoided the newbies like Esther and Ian, who were craning for a better view, and asking who started it, and she went down the long table picking up Big Paul's plate which was picked clean and stopping to put Dani's food plate on the top of the stack because it looked like she hadn't eaten a single bite. Once she collected an armload, she hip-butted her way through the swinging door into the kitchen.

To her surprise, Dani was there ahead of her. She was standing at the counter lapping at a pie plate. The big blond girl Hoovered big bites of lemon meringue into her mouth while she held her ponytail out of the muck.

"Hey! Margaret made that pie for everybody!"

Dani continued swallowing gouts of meringue and neon yellow filling without seeming to chew. It had only been a few minutes since Estie had stabbed Reza. His whimpers punctuated the buzz of excited voices and swearing that was still coming from the dining room. Yet the celebratory pie Margaret baked to feed a dozen people was almost half gone.

\"You\'re sick!\"

\"Isn\'t everybody?\" Dani smiled a horrid smile, a glob of filling quivering on her chin. \"Why do you think we're all locked up here? You\'re as fucked up as the rest of us.\"

> \"I\'m not! I don't bully people!"
>
> Dani scooped in a cloud of meringue. "Besides it's my pie for graduating.

"The hell you graduated! You manipulated your way out of here. Or your parents can't pay!

"So?"

"So get your face out of that pie and leave some for the rest of us."

"Make me."

Dani turned away to concentrate on eating.

Old Girl thought for a second or two that she was acting on Estie's behalf, like she had when she pushed the platter of food to her. But then, OG realized something better. It wasn't Estie she was acting for, now, it was herself.

Dani wasn't half as tough as she thought she was. Sure, Dani was taller but Old Girl, thanks to her hours on the treadmill, was in better shape. And she had the element of surprise.

Old Girl smacked the back of Dani's head with the flat of her palm. She forced the girl's head down to the countertop and ground her eyebrows deep into the pie pan as hard as she could. Man did it feel good. Custard and meringue squirted everywhere as the girl struggled, snorting and choking, trying to pick her head up. But gravity and righteous anger was on Old Girl's side. She felt the strangest sense of satisfaction come over her. She was still hungry from the interrupted dinner but for perhaps the first time in her life, she felt totally, completely satisfied.
