---
uid: 01KAGVXT2WDQM5RVMZT7Z96ZSY
project: you-da-hoe
source_file: 27. Lydia Tells Darlene About Making Friends.docx
converted_date: '2025-11-24T17:17:47.389107'
wordcount: 1171
version: 1
---

27\.

Tell me about your friends," Darlene asked one session.

Lydia looked blankly at her, wondering what horse shit Darlene was trying to pass off as ice cream. "You mean, like in first grade?"

"Well you can start there but I was wondering who you hung out with in Grosse Point."

Darlene was convinced that her problem was a lack of social skills. "You never progressed beyond having more than one friend at a time. That's something most kids learn by the third grade."

At present, she didn't have even one friend so she wasn't sure what Darlene was basing her facts on.

"I didn't really pal around with anybody."

"No one?"\
"Sometimes I went shopping with a couple of girls. Two nieces of one of Grandmother's friends who were visiting from Toronto. They came over and went through her closet discards like locusts. They liked her for what she was willing to give them, she supposed.

"How about here? Who are you close to at the Program? Usually people form attachments wherever they are."

"This isn't a very friendly place," Lydia said. "Why would you want a friend just as crazy as your self?"

Darlene shook her head. "You were written up this week for antagonizing Old Girl."

"She's a bitch. Everything antagonizes her."

"What did you do to her to get written up?"

"I drive her crazy. She says I'm a user."

"Is that true?'

Hmmm. Old Girl wanted the ottoman at Process Group so she could turn her back to the group and stare out the window. Lydia wanted to see what was so interesting about a bunch of Ponderosa trees in a yard full of drifting snow. The only sign of life she'd seen out there was a raven cawing on the fence. Nature. What a disappointment.

"It says here\--," Darlene gestured to the file on her lap, "---you two had to be separated."

"Her dreadlocks creep me out. I just wanted to see if something was growing in there."

"Was there?"

Old Girl had smelled like fabric softener and something pleasantly spicy that she couldn't identify. She hadn't tried to hurt her. Just sat put her in a leg lock until Margaret came and pulled her off and made them sit in opposite corners of the living room.

After a long moment of silence, Darlene said, "What about Estie? How's it going having her as your room mate?"

"She's a pig. She never takes a shower."

Lydia and Darlene had spent weeks arguing about why Lydia had to pick up after herself when the Program had staff for that. "We're trying to prepare you for real life."

"I'm not going to be a maid in real life," she had said. Darlene actually laughed, though she tried to cover the smile with a cough.

"There's that new girl, Rachel."

Lydia rolled her eyes. Darlene was so clueless. "She's friends with James. She's taken."

"She can be friends with more than one person at a time. This isn't second grade."

For some reason, the memory of Rebekah Israel from second grade flitted through her mind. Rebekah and Lydia had been besties all through the first half of second grade until Rebekah dumped for a tiny Japanese girl who transferred in to the Academy when her father got transferred to Zurich. How amazed she had felt when she saw Rebekah eating lunch with the girl at a different table opposite the one where Lydia and Rebekah always sat. She'd glanced around for someone else to sit with but everywhere she looked, kids were in pairs or threesomes and the only place that was free was with one of the slow kids. She'd turned away and dumped her full tray in the garage and gone to the library the rest of the year. Rebekkah had called her two or three times after that, wanting to go on a play date, but she never answered her calls. Once burned and all that.

"I've got plenty of guy friends. They all like me.:

"Sex isn't the same thing as friendship," Darlene said. "We've talked about that."

"Besides girls are catty. It's stupid to waste time on them when they're only going to stab you in the back and steal from you."

"They don't if they're really friends."

"I guess I wouldn't know."

Sigh. She was gunning for another black mark from Darlene on the daily list of black marks and warnings and infractions against recommended behaviors that were designed to keep people in the Program forever. Then it occurred to her that she did have something to drag out and display at Darlene's stupid show-and-tell.

"Actually, I made friends with a guy at NICC." She skipped the part about Lorenzo being homeless and not technically enrolled in college. What different did that make? He wouldn't have sex with her ergo, he was a friend, wasn't he?

"One of your classmates? Oh, that's good. Tell me about him."

"He's a Mormon. Kind of scruffy---but nice. He bought me a cup of coffee when I ran out of quarters."

"What'd you talk about."

"Just normal stuff. Where he lives." At the Povarello Center for recovering drunks and deadbeats. "About his dog." Also a stray with a rope leash. "He asked me on a coffee date. And he thanked me. That was weird."

"What'd he thank you for?"\
Truly, it beat the hell out of her. "For an interesting conversation, I guess."

"He has good manners."

"He held the door for me when we went out." That had been a first.

What do you like about him?"

Hmmm. That was a poser. It sure wasn't Lorenzo's looks. That scruffy camouflage jacket. The ragged clown hair that needed to be cut. A curly, out of control beard. Even his freckles were homely and overgrown.

"He was interested in me. He didn't want anything. We just talked."

"Sounds promising. Will you see him again?"

"He said he'd help me study for my accounting quiz. He likes numbers."

"Are you attracted to him?" Darlene code for "are you going to fuck him?"

"No way. He's like a mountain. Or a mountain man. He's as big as a house." She grimaced. "He's got horrible freckles. And facial hair. And curly red hair that he never combs."

Darlene nodded, like go on.

"He's kind of funny. Anyway, he made me laugh."

"Promising," Darlene said. "Let me know how it goes. When do you see him again?"

"On Thursday after Sociology Class."

"Good, Lydia, that's progress." Not a checkmark at least. She could read the red + sign Darlene put at the top of her Progress Summary.

Bing-bong. Session over according to Darlene's sweet-and-smarmy ringtone. Lydia gathered up her purse and she was reviewing the contents of her closet when she went out the door. What do you wear to a coffee date? Jeans and a tight cashmere sweater? A see-through blouse and a skirt that barely covered her butt? Definitely Ferragamo boots. Boots were sexy in any kind of weather.
