---
uid: 01KAGVZ1JG2S50PFKDVSDEPP1D
project: you-da-hoe
source_file: 28. Rusty plans the fire.docx
converted_date: '2025-11-24T12:25:46.167908'
wordcount: 582
version: 1
---

28\.

RUSTY WAITED IN THE CRAWL SPACE under the nuthouse alternately listening to the sounds of life going on above him in his hole and napping on the old bedspread he'd dragged in with him. He had to move away from the family room where they kept the pool table because the breaking balls reminded him of the sound of his old man breaking sticks over his head for a whipping. Nobody could sleep through that.

Under the girl's bedrooms, near the laundry room that had the crawl space that allowed access to the duct work and the pipes was quieter. The entry was blocked because some asshole had loaded a bunch of boxes marked "Xmas" on them that Rusty had to move. He made a mental note to come back for them because people were always coming to the dump looking for ornaments and fake trees.

In the quiet dark, cloistered in his own fug, he felt cocooned in his own cave. He'd been dreaming so insistently day and night in was hard to tell what happened from what was about to happen. Always the blond girl with the tight, muscular ass. Hair hanging down like a curtain. The letters on the back of her tee shirt----Poker in the Rear---were like a promise. Oh Christ in heaven she wanted it! Just the idea of seeing her in her bare legs, the tee shirt riding up the globes of her pale ass lit him up.

She was the reason he\'d loaded up a bucket of old paint rags smelling faintly of turpentine. He'd squirt them with fire starter in case they didn\'t light with the first match. He patted his vest pocket to make sure he hadn\'t just dreamed up the box of matches.

He planned to be right outside the back door when the fire call went out. He imagined her racing out in the night in bare feet and the tee shirt. A better idea struck him. Maybe he could be manning the hose and accidentally, like, spray her in the chest\--that was good. He rerolled the tape in his mind and he imagined the fire call that brought him from the back road behind the house to the side yard where he\'d be standing in the spankin' new volunteer fire department jacket he'd bought to impress her. She\'d be able to see him by the light of the flames but she\'d be almost blinded by the neon reflective tape and she\'d be standing there in the wet tee shirt with her tits all perky and Rusty would duct-tape her mouth to keep her quiet and\...

Rusty hadn\'t quite figured out the next part yet. How was he going to grab her with all the other volunteer assholes on the fire department getting in the way?

He\'d have to nab her when she barreled out the back door and before she ran out to the front yard where he\'d first seen her puking. Reluctantly, he discarded up the hose idea. Once he had her locked in the trailer he could rub her down with maple syrup and eat her with a spoon, he supposed.

The fire was just to get her out in the cold in the tee shirt. A means to an end, as the old man used to say. What an end, he thought patting the matches then starting the tape of his mind once again, her pale ass glinting in the dimness before he nodded off.

\#
