---
uid: 01KAGWBGSD68JR6NKZYHTXQ5SW
project: you-da-hoe
source_file: 29. OG smells smoke.docx
converted_date: '2025-11-24T12:22:20.826149'
wordcount: 468
version: 1
---

29\.

OLD GIRL'S SLEEP WAS FITFUL. A few nights before, she kept thinking she heard shutter snaps under the gray veil of uneven, dream-raddled sleep. Then, close to one a.m., she woke up smelling cigarette smoke. It wafted in from the window she couldn\'t remember leaving cracked.

She'd been dreaming about riding in the passenger seat of the blue van while Margaret was driving. The lock was beckoning to her.

Unlock me. Throw the door handle. Lean against the door panel and let gravity be your friend! She could see her body hanging by the door handle as the door swung wider. Asphalt rushed below her feet like a grey river of uneven rocks.

Just let go. Was it the thought that woke her or the smoke?

When she padded over to the window on Rachel's side of the room, the acrid smell got stronger. She yanked the sash and it banged down. She whispered, \"Sorry," but Rachel only stirred, then sighed deeper in the covers.

What would it be like to sleep all night? To wake refreshed instead of bone tired and bleary with weariness? Her dreams were always worse when she was tired. Coke machines toppling. The aspirin bottle that rattled like a snake in her Dr. Williams, her Shakespeare professor's, drawer. That afternoon, she'd fallen asleep in the van ride home with Margaret and dreamed about hooking a loose exhaust pipe up to a garden hose. That's how she knew she was dreaming. You'd never find a hose in the middle of January in Idaho where every irrigation device was put away nine months out of the year.

\"Hey, I\'m talking to you, dreamy,\" Margaret\'s voice pulled her out of danger. "How come you're so tired?"

\"Sorry. I didn\'t sleep last night."

\"Why not?\"

\"Et tu, Brute?\" Old Girl said.

\"What's that supposed to mean?\"

"It's Shakespeare for "mind your own business.\"

"Is not,\" Margaret said. \"It means, \'You too, Brutus?\"

"Why does everybody in this god forsaken place always try to get the latest dirt from me? You just want to smother me with it.\"

By then the van was jouncing into the rutted driveway.

"You need a nap,\" Margaret pronounced, like she was talking to a bratty child. She swatted her gently on the butt in an effort to herd her down the hall towards her room. \"You look like a raccoon.\"

\"Huh?\"

\"Rings around your eyes, silly. Growing bones need sleep.\"

Old Girl rolled her eyes but she felt so dead on her feet she'd laid down still in her down jacket and slept the sleep of the dead until dinner.

She decided she might as well go to the john since she was already up. She opened the door and that's when she realized the hall was foggy with smoke.

\#
