---
uid: 01KAGWABNBGP559AXVF118VX3H
project: you-da-hoe
source_file: 30. Rusty looks badass in his fire jacket.docx
converted_date: '2025-11-24T12:22:38.788380'
wordcount: 1295
version: 1
---

30\.

RUSTY LOOKED TOTALLY BADASS in his new uniform jacket. Double neon-yellow stripes lit up blue navy sleeves at the shoulders and hem. A Couer D'Alene County Volunteer Firefighter patch on his heart.

He had been hoping somebody would buy the Mustang parts he\'d been squirreling away. When he had enough money socked away in the oil can he used for a bank, he could buy the suspender pants to go with the coat. But at least nobody here at the fire would see him in the jacket and think Rusty Harrow was just a candy-ass garbage hauler.

Now it looked to him like the blond asshole is feeling up the girl with a great ass under cover of a blanket.

He'd been all ready to tell Daly, the Squad Chief, that he\'d been on his way home which everybody knew was 5 miles past the house on Strenger Road before the town council figured out that putting a dump next to the Coeur d\'Alene River was a bad idea. His plan was to drive up to join the guys at the last minute until it occurred to him it would be better to be already on duty so that piss-ant Scholtz couldn't ride him for being late. Always on him, that S.O.B..

But neither Daly nor Scholtz looked at him twice when Rusty showed drove up to the fire. Daly had just shouted, \"You! Harrow. Set up the perimeter line. Keep them kids back and keep 'em out from under foot.\" Scholtz saw the new jacket but the son-of-a-bitch never said a fucking word.

Besides, if he moved the truck now, he'd be stranded at the end of the lane due to all the cars ahead of him. It wasn't as far to hump across the field again from where he was already parked so maybe he saved himself some steps. That was using his noggin, like his old man was always saying.

The problem was the blond asshole had got to the girl before him. Onct he got to the fire, what he really wanted to do was invite the girl to come sit next to him in the truck. He wanted to blast the heat up to high and tell her he was one of the first responders on the scene -- true, since he'd napped in the crawl space a couple hours till all the loonie-tunes went to bed and then he brought out the turpentine soaked rags from his pocket.

If he'da followed the plan, instead of jerking off to clear his head, the truck woulda been first in line instead of being stuck a field away and the darkie girl would be sitting next to him in a warm cab insteada being felt up under some blond turd's blanket. Shit for brains, he could still hear the old man saying in his good ear. His bad ear hadn't heard anything since the old man clubbed him raw on that side of his noggin.

That fat slob, Charlene, who went to grade school with him before he quit going, waddled back and forth in the laundry room for hours. Every time he thought she was done folding laundry, he\'d hear her clomping overhead and then the washer would crank up for another load. He finally gave up and laid down on his stomach in the crawl space and took a short snooze. When he woke up, the house was silent and still.

It come out handy he knew the nut house in and out.

His old man used to do pick-up carpentry and repair jobs when he wasn\'t hitting the bottle. He liked to drag the piss-ant with him to hump lumber and hand him tools. If Rusty didn\'t know the difference between a lag bolt and a nut, he\'d get a cuff on the ear that would make his head ring. Still, in them days, it wasn't all work and no play. Rusty had been small enough to crawl in duct work. He'd learned where you could get into the main floor through the plywood door with the busted latch in a closet.

All this was way before Hazey bought the spread from Christy Christiansen to turn it into a daycare for fruitcakes.

It was still a straight shot through the crawl space, a drop down, and a step across the hall to the laundry room. He just had to make sure fat-ass Charleen didn\'t get wind of him in the house. He could hear her singing over the whir of a dryer. Did that nosy bitch never shut her pie hole?

The wad of dryer fluff in the lint screen was a Christmas present. Fucked up rich kids too lazy to clean the trap. Or was Charleen the one too stupid to save the motor?

He lit a match and watched the spark touch the lint like a snake's tongue and it whooshed into flame. Plenty of fuel to get this party going. Just to make sure, he gave the Rayon curtains that hung beside the window a spritz of lighter fluid. Fingers of flame were reaching for the ceiling by the time he shut the door.

He called in the fire on a prepaid Virgin Mobile phone, then tossed the burner in a ditch. Whatever happened to reach out and touch someone, a jingle he remembered from television? Or Mighty Mouse? You never saw ol Mighty or his girlfriend Misty? Minnie? anymore. Minnie was a screamer he remembered, like he was hoping the dark girl would be.

It was a pisser.

Now he was doing crowd control over a crowd of clucking crazies who were milling around the old house and yard like chickens. The experienced guys from the squad were up on the roof or manning the fire hoses and climbing the ladders to chop a hole near the dryer vent. The fire source.

He'd been manning the fire tape, telling kids to stay back when he'd spotted the girl. Marty Oldstead was handing her a space blanket and if he coulda, he'd a kicked the little shit in the nuts. Why hadn\'t he thought to bring the nice horse blanket he\'d just lifted from Rawlings Stable and wrapped it around the girl himself? Fucking nim-shitz, he whispered. Fucking dick-turd.

Now he drifted to the end of the tape closer to a knot of kids who were stamping their feet and rubbing their hands together against the cold. His girl, the tously-haired one with udders the size of a cow, was at the edge of the group. Some tall asshole had his arm around her shoulders. Rusty had to get a hold on himself so he didn\'t walk up and stiff arm the bastard in his ugly puss.

The girl glanced his direction. She gave him an uncertain nod, a faint glimmer of something in her eyes. She remembers me, he told himself. A sense of warmth stole up on him as if he'd been kidnapped and thrown in a box. She remembers me.

The plan had been working like clockwork, until the tall kid stuck a spoke in the works, him and his fucking blanket. There was something going on under the mound that bothered him. The girl leaned back against the asshole's chest with her eyes closed. He couldn't see the pip-squeak curly haired girl at all because the blanket was wrapped around all three of them from head to toe.

The blonde turd's glance passed over Rusty. His gaze swiveled back and the they locked eyes. A frown flitted over the kid\'s face like he was wondering who Rusty was. \"You\'ll know my name soon enough you cock-sucker," Rusty told himself. "If you think she's a screamer, wait till you hear yourself."

\#
