---
uid: 01KAGW4SCA2N0ESPN8MSK0D7P9
project: you-da-hoe
source_file: 31. OG's hat stolen by an owl on night of raccoons.docx
converted_date: '2025-11-24T12:24:06.090705'
wordcount: 1505
version: 1
---

32\.

OLD GIRL RAN DOWN THE GIRL'S wing screaming "Fire!" She beat on every door of the Fat Ass wing while Charlene, on Night Duty, hollered and pounded door-to-door shouting at all the Blackheads to get out.

Now they were all gathered in the front yard watching flames shoot out of the back door by the laundry room.

Only a few people had coats or blankets, though Charlene had parked herself at the front door closet and shoved anything warm at people in the mad rush to escape. Reza had wrapped a bath towel around his skinny shoulders and wore nothing on his lower half except tighty-whities.

Charlene took one look at his goose bumpy legs and shoved a puffy pink ski jacket at him from a bundle in her arms. \"Jesus, you ding bat. Put this on before you freeze your skinny ass!" Reza zipped up the short girl's jacket----Old Girl thought it might belong to Lydia----and rearranged the striped bath towel into a turban. He looked like a bare-assed Arab stranded in the snow.

Rachel was alone on the other side of the yard, watching flames lick up the siding and bawling. Old Girl assumed she'd bolted straight out to the yard after Old Girl had woken her and was busy while Old Girl was making sure everybody got out. She wasn't sure what the softie was bawling about. She'd gotten out safe, hadn't she? Old Girl herself had had no second thoughts about running away if the choice was to be burned to a crisp.

Old Girl patted Hello Kitty hanging off her shoulder to reassure herself it was still there. Her pack was the first thing she'd grabbed after she pulled her pants on. Mom gave it to her on her tenth birthday and now the kid's backpack was so small it barely fit over her shoulders. Kitty's eyelashes had worn off first and now Kitty herself was slowly being erased. Old Girl was always having to fend off Margaret's efforts to shake it in Spray N'Wash. The grime was what she liked about it. Everything once white was gray and what used to be pink or purple was an even grimmer gray and the grime seemed equal to the gray asphalt in her heart. By the time Old Girl actually managed to off herself, she imagined Hello Kitty would be black.

A volunteer firefighter was chopping a hole in the roof while others were spraying horse tails of water on smoking walls. The fire seemed to be concentrated near Old Girl's room next to the laundry room at the end of the hall, based on where the hoses were aiming.

Old Girl was about to go over to Rachel, thinking she ought to try to console her, but James beat her to it. He opened the woolen blanket around his shoulders and came up behind Rachel to wrap her in a bear hug. \"It\'s OK," she heard James saying. \"You\'re safe."

Lydia wandered by them wearing nothing but a cotton tee shirt and a pair of frog printed sleep shorts. She eyed their cozy blanket like she would kill for it.

To Old Girl\'s surprise, Rachel opened the front of her blanket and beckoned Lydia into the safety of its cocoon. "Come in here and get warm." Lydia's face! She looked like a starving person handed a piece of warm bread: equal parts shock and covetousness.

A firefight near them was stretching out a band of fire tape to keep people back. Seeing Rachel open her blanket, forcing James to do the same to admit Lydia, he stopped in his tracks. For an instant, Old Girl thought he was about to throw a wicked pair of wire cutters at James. Other firefighters were hefting ladders against the house and hooking up hoses and talking on staticky walkie-talkies to get the flames under control while this guy stood very still, radiating malevolence.

"Hey, Rusty! Get your fat ass in gear!" He backed away toward a fire truck parked cross-angled in the snow keeping his eyes focused on the three-way blanket sandwich.

Weird, she thought.

It was bitter cold. As her adrenalin burst began to wear off, it felt even colder. The malevolence on the firefighter's face made Old Girl shiver far below the down jacket and two sweaters she\'d pulled over her nightgown.

Thank God her black Snoopy hat with the long beagle ears and a ratty pompon for a nose was stuffed in her pocket. She pulled it out and Snoopy's white and black goggle eyes rolled on either side of the pompom. What she needed to do was pull off the eyeball buttons that moved when she moved and replace them with black crosses. Instant metamorphosis: pet dog to road kill. Instead, she jammed the hat over hear ears and moved away from the group so she stood alone.

She felt a whoosh of powerful wings.

The hat she'd just jammed down over her ears on was ripped off her head. One of her dreads went with it. A powerful yank. Then the dread still smarting, dropped back down and slapped her across the face.

"Wha\-\--?"

Dark wings materialized over her head. A glimpse of sharpened talons. A brief brush of wind was eerily silent. Eagle? Owl? Something dark and powerful beat silhouetted wings above the flames and landed in a grove of Ponderosa trees.

Disbelieving, she touched one hand to her head.

It was bare. Snoopy was gone.

Her scalp felt like it was on fire where the dread lock had been jerked full length. It was Gabe's baby hat. Mom gave him Snoopy for a birthday present when he turned four, shortly because the car crash. She'd taken it with her when she moved in with Uncle David and Aunt Peggy.

A light wind tossed snow crystals from the snow drifts in little heartless puffs. Her ears tingled from the cold. Deep down, in her body but nowhere she could describe, she felt the dull ache of loss.

Since the death of her family, she had meticulously pared her life to the bare essentials. Gabe's hat. The Hello Kitty backpack from Mom. Her journal. To lose Snoopy was like having one of her limbs amputated and then carrying on without a murmur.

Her immediate impulse was to throw herself into the middle of the group in their blankets and howl. Her feet were heading toward the cocoon before the thought was full formed. Hold me. Somebody take me in before I fall to my knees.

She wasn't sure but she thought she caught a glimpse of Snoopy's whirling eyes before the bird landed.

Old Girl heard a disembodied voice say, \"What the hell?\"

The crowd of refugees from Healing House wrapped in blankets, huddled in pajamas and random coats grabbed from the front hall, all turned en masse and peered up into the pines that surrounded Healing House. A light from one of the fire fighter's Maglites a played across the branches.

A pink starburst glowed near the top of the tallest Ponderosa pines. Beady black eyes set off by a narrow black mask were peering out from the face of a radioactive flower.

Another spotlight lit up another feral face in the center of an DayGlow green splat.

One by one all the radioactive colors in a nuclear rainbow dotted the dark branches like dreams from a strange nuclear vision.

\"Coons?\" one of the firefighters said.

"Jesus. Are they sick?\" somebody else said.

The sight was illogical and strange and wonderment seemed to be catching as it hopped from the stranded kids in their mismatched boots and blankets, to the firemen in their neon-striped coats that matched a yellowish glow on a starburst of the raccoons.

Half a dozen masked creatures were splattered with paint on their bellies and haunches. On one, paint ran from its shoulder down its forearm to a tiny, almost human starfish of a hand.

James, then Rachel were shouting and pointing. " Look!! There's a pink one!"

No, she wanted to cry. That's not a raccoon, it's a great horned owl!

"A purple coon!"

"Holy crap, there's a green one!"

"Coons! They're glowing. What the fuck?"

Big Paul, stunned out of his autistic silence , said in a voice of wonder, "Who turned on the Christmas lights?"

Flashlights from every fire fighter were strafing the pines, searching for the nuclear painted raccoons. In the glow of the search lights, it was easy to see the giant owl's silhouette perched on top of the tallest tree. No one except Old Girl noted it. Not when a flower garden of Day-Glo raccoons bloomed in the black trees like an show of sun dogs or the Northern Lights.

Was this what life was destined to be? Old Girl asked herself? A series of losses followed by even more losses until she herself was naked as the day she came into this world?

WTF was the only thing Old Girl could think to say.

\#
