---
uid: 01KAGW52MK81HSMDQ971P02WYJ
project: you-da-hoe
source_file: 33. Rachel receives blanket from James.docx
converted_date: '2025-11-24T12:23:59.980543'
wordcount: 1254
version: 1
---

33\.

RACHEL ERUPTED OUT OF HER COVERS when Old Girl shook her and screamed at her to wake up.

She was still hopping on one leg, trying to get her socks on while slipping on a pair of pants under her nightgown, as Old Girl pounded down the hall, knocking on doors and screaming,"Fire! Get up and get out!" Rachel pawed blindly under the bed looking for her shoes.What the hell was wrong with the lights? Her eyes itched and she coughed and clawed at their sudden watering in dim hellish light that was eking from an emergency strip of lighting that ran down the hall.

Her first thought was to use the emergency exit nearest her room which would let her out in the side yard. But smoke was curling up from the hall carpet and she was choking and retching before she made it to the laundry room. She touched one hand to the exit door and jumped back. Holy shit. Hot!

She pelted toward the front door and when she ran past the coat closet where Cheryl was stationed, trying to check people's names off her Duty Sheet, Cheryl shoved a puffy coat at her. "Out!" she shouted "Wear this and go!"

Outside, the cold slapped her like a blow. It shocked Rachel to see flames already licking up the siding from an open window at the end of Healing House.

Sirens caterwauled in the distance. Pick-ups and SUVs were barreling down the main road and turning into the driveway and more cars were already parked haphazardly on the snow-covered lawn. A van disgorged people in firefighter hats and neon uniforms while two police cars roared up behind the van with flashing lights and loud wah-wah-wah sounds. What a stupid time to realize Idaho was too backward to own a fire engine, she was thinking, about the time she spotted a pint-size red fire truck being unloaded next to the garage doors. Uniformed men silhouetted in a blaze of blue and red lights swarmed the miniature truck as they shouted and unreeled hoses with long, industrial sized nozzles.

In the chaos of the mad escape out of Healing House, Rachel searched the melee for Old Girl and James. She had a moment of panic when she couldn't spot either of them. She joined the rest of Healing House crowded near the trellis, their assigned meeting place in an emergency. Charlene was now bellowing names and checking them against her clipboard. Charleen hollered "Olson!" and when James called out "Here!", Rachel felt a little calmer.

He had been smart enough to grab the blankets off his bed while the rest of Healing House braved the January cold in whatever they were sleeping in which was mostly tee shirts and underpants. A few were wearing flip-flops and coats that didn't belong to them. James, wrapped head to toe in thick Pendleton blankets, looked vaguely Indian, except for the Oakland A's baseball cap on his head.

Rachel began a systematic search of the yard for Old Girl. It took her a few circuits in a rising panic to locate her missing roommate. When she finally spotted her, Old Girl was crouched in the snow, no where near the trellis, with her backpack spread out in front of her.

"Where were you?You scared the shit out of me!" Rachel grabbed her and hauled her to her chest.

"I had to go back in and find my journal," Old Girl said, stepping back.

"That was stupid! The smoke was horrible! How'd you know there was a fire?"

Old Girl was back to scrabbling in her pack, until she resurrected a black Snoopy hat out of the bottom. She jammed it over her ears. " I dreamed I was smoking."

"You don't smoke."

"I know. That's why it woke me up."

It was the sight of the zip locked bag of photos that Old Girl was thrusting back in the pack that shoved a fist into Rachel's solar plexus. The ultrasound in her scrap book! Flames were now rocketing from the roof above the girl's wing into the starry sky. She remembered shoving the her dresser drawer shut last night after looking, as she always did before she went to sleep, at a fuzzy diamond shaped computer image. She was probably the only person in the world---other than the technician who'd spread the gell ---who knew that the tiny, vaguely shrimpish shape in the waves of black and white lines was a baby.

The smile of the gray-haired technician. The shiver as cold gel greased a sliding circle of cold over her belly. She didn't even know what she was looking at until the woman pointed out tadpole-like legs and a bowed spine with a head the size of a walnut. "Sweet! Baby is sucking its thumb!"

Bits of ash floated weightless in the night sky. Then a brisk gust of wind tossed the bits of grim confetti into a wash of milky stars where they disappeared as quickly as the lost infant.

Feeling slightly nauseous, Rachel was envisioning the flannel sheets she\'d been swaddled in bursting into flame with her blankets as fire licked up the oak bureau to the drawer where she'd placed a scrapbook of photos of Mom, Dad, Sammy, her brother, and Trisha Nixon, the family dog along with the only ultrasound of her baby.

Rachel crossed her arms around her chest. The temperature gauge on the house read-10 degrees. There was no cloud cover. She wore a red puffy jacket that she couldn't zip over her nightgown and a pair U of Illinois cotton running pants with tennis shoes. A light touch on her shoulder surprised her out of her revery. It was James. He motioned her forward. She turned a questioning look at him and without words, he opened the folds of his woolen blankets and she stepped into a warm cave of body heat. He closed the blankets around her, allowing her to lean into his wiry boyishness. She smelled shampoo with a faint touch of stinky athletic shoe that was somehow reminiscent of Sammy's room back home in Illinois.

Right about then, Lydia wandered past them in a pink hoody and cotton sleeping shorts and for a second, the similarity between Lydia and Rachel's brother Sammy seemed uncanny. They were about the same size---two underfed middle-schoolers with wild mops of black curly hair. Lydia's legs in frog-printed cotton shorts were as goose-bumped and knobby as Sammy's when he used to crawl under her covers and snuggle up to watch cartoons with her in his Batman underpants.

Rachel instinctively opened one side the blanket and she beckoned at Lydia to come join them. The look on Lydia's face was so hungry, it almost hurt to look at her. "Come on in and warm up," Rachel said. "It's a party."

She felt James's short intake of breath. A silent shake of laughter. Then he twitched and opened the other side of the bedding. Because James and Rachel were nearly a head taller than she was, Lydia slipped into the nest of their arms like a child.

If you had looked down on them, say from an owl's perspective perched on the highest branch of a Ponderosa pine, you would have seen James tighten one end of his blanket around Rachel, and Rachel tighten the other end of the blanket around Lydia. They mashed together in a three-way sandwich for warmth and support in the moment. Pretty much all there was.

\#
