---
uid: 01KAGWVZ6V3Y7ZCW0HF0998A98
project: you-da-hoe
source_file: 35. What was Saved .docx
converted_date: '2025-11-24T12:12:55.109923'
wordcount: 3111
version: 1
---

35\.

THE DAY AFTER THE FIRE, DARLENE CHANGED UP THE PROCESS. "Now that you've had a chance to recover, go get the one thing from your room that you would have been sick about losing in the fire."

"What if you didn't save anything?" Dani asked. "I only saved myself."

If that didn't say everything there was to say about Dani, Lydia didn't know what would.

The muscle in Darlene's jaw twitched. "The point was," she said tightly, "to bring what they would have saved if they'd had time to think; the assignment was to explain to the group what the object meant to them.

Amid the usual groans and whining, the usual sound track of Healing House, Lydia found Estie back in their room, deep in Lydia's side of the closet. Estie came out holding Lydia's Judith Lieber bag. It was a winking white, made in the shape of a cat. It was jeweled all over in Swarovsky crystals.

"That\'s mine," Lydia said. "You're supposed to pick something of your own."

"I don't have anything."

STrue enough. Estie\'s side of the double looked like a monk's cell. She owned a pilling brown blanket, a couple of size 3X muumuu tops that made her look both pregnant and granny-like, plus an X-Large men's camouflage jacket.

"Please." The look of desire on Estie\'s face was so naked, Lydia had to look away.

She was pawing through the trunk at the foot of her bed, rifling through summer shorts and bikinis and sunscreen that she wouldn't need until summer. Tooled leather communicated it to her before she saw it. The hard-backed sketch book felt warm, as if she'd just set it down on a sunny rock on the trail.

"Fine," Lydia said, in spite of herself. "Just don't blame me if you get in trouble for taking it."

Estie gifted her with a beatific smile gapped with two missing teeth. "You're Estie's bestie."

If naked desire had been awful, gratitude was even worse, especially when Estie enveloped her in a hug that smelled of French fries and the sweetish off-gassing of whatever anti-psychotic they were giving her. "Get off me !"

Back in the living room, people were piling their objects onto a prayer rug Darlene had laid out in the circular opening between the couches.

Lydia shrank in her seat and kept her eyes down so Darlene wouldn't start with her. No way was she going to stand up and admit that she had saved an old sketch book of crappy drawings she'd dragged around every national park in the western United States during the summer she turned fifteen.

Big Paul got stuck with starting the group off. He held up a weird bunch of ragged material that looked like a pile of cleaning rags. "This is Blankie." His big hairy hand hand went to one of the tatters. He stroked his cheek with the silky side, face impassive.

Darlene prompted. "You've had Blankie since you were a baby?"

"It's nineteen. Same age as me." Paul studied his favorite spot on the rug which was either badly cleaned vomit or blood.

Darlene went on a riff about transitional objects and how valuable they were in a young child's ability to separate from his parents, without alluding to the fact that Big Paul was nearly two decades out of diapers. "Very good, Paul," she said. "I'm so glad you shared this."

People always said that the reason Paul never looked anyone in the eye was because it was against his religion. Lydia was surprised to catch Paul's boyish, sidelong glance at Darlene through extraordinarily long, black eyelashes. So he's really in there, thought. Buried deep, and hard to coax out.

Reza had forgotten his pants the night of the fire but he managed to run out of Healing House with his pillow.

"What?" he said when people laughed at the grayish, baggy lump on his lap. "It take a long time to break one in the way I like it."

"Too bad he didn't smother himself with it," James muttered under his breath.

Lydia remembered her first two weeks of hardship on the Parks hike. She didn't have a pillow. As usual, Lydia had expected someone else to provide life's necessities and some hurried maid back in Detroit had forgotten to pack one. Between the adrenalin ache in her legs and the strangeness of sleeping outdoors with her head in a downward slant, she didn't sleep for the first week. Gracie, the Head Guide, finally took pity on her and loaned her her own personal pillow. No wonder she fell in love.

Rachel's choice of what to save was an photo album. She wrapped the overstuffed pages as if she was holding a baby to her chest. Why that? Darlene prodded. Why not something else?

"It's the only thing that irreplaceable," Rachel answered.

Lydia thought of her old cross-legged self on rocky scree, hunched over the sketchbook with water color pencils and an ink pen she used for the contour lines and the hatching. The sketchbook lived in her pack. Whenever they had a rest break, she took it out and worked on a new drawing. Thee book was important on the trail. Was it irreplaceable?

Gracie was a UC-Davis post doc, working on a research project. Something about tracking the effects of climate change on the interaction of flower pollination by bees. Lydia had never really understood what Gracie was working on; all she had cared about was the way Gracie had studied her drawings and praised the details and growing improvement of her observational skills. "How long have you been drawing?" She asked Lydia how long she'd been drawing in the early days of the hike and Lydia was too embarrassed to tell her she'd just started. The maid who had forgotten the pillow had packed the sketchbook and drawing materials. The minute Lydia began looking closely at the wildflowers and ferns and lichens on the trails, she had a sudden desire to put pencil to paper, as if something had clicked into place.

Was it the way time expanded when Lydia translated what she saw into sepals and stamens and anthers and pistols on the page. Or was it Gracie's admiration and praise? From Lydia's early stumbling starts, she could page through the sketchesl and see her skill growing over the days and weeks of the hiking trip. Her hands got more dexterous as her eyes saw more detail at the same time her legs and feet toughened over the long miles of walking.

"What do the photos mean to you?" Darlene asked Rachel.

Rachel shrugged, like "doh." "Friends. Family. What else is there?"

"You like them but they hate you," Dani said. "Why else would they lock you up here?"

Everybody laughed because it was true.

James fashion-modeled his letter sweater from the Malibu High basketball team. "Hey! I earned it. What's the big deal?" he protested at more laughter. Everybody knew basketball meant everything to James. It was all he thought about, all he was working to get back to when he escaped to normal life.

Darlene prodded at him, asking why the sweater rather than something else he kept in his room? "My Michael Jordan shoes were at home," he said. More laughter.

"Nothing from your parents? Your older sister?"

James shook his head. "What can I say. I'm shallow." He made a point of not looking at anyone when he said it. So too close to the truth.

"There's no right or wrong here," Darlene said. "It's just an opportunity to think constructively about what you care most about. What is it that matters to each of you in life? Think about that."

Darlene could not fathom why Estie brought Lydia's cat bag. She frowned at her, fingering the clipboard as if she was contemplating banging herself over the head. "The point of the group exercise is to bring something of your own that you care about. Why did you bring something that belongs to Lydia?"

"She let me." The simple truth from Estie, the village idiot. ILydia had had dog-years of therapy but it was common sense that told her Estie had a bad case of magpie syndrome. Anyone with eyes could see that the crash-damaged girl adored anything shiny or glittering. There was no point looking for some long, psychologically deep explanation of why from Estie because she didn't know herself.

"What difference does it make?" Lydia finally spoke up in her exasperation, despite her decision to keep her mouth shut. "She likes it. I let her borrow it."

"This isn't some fantasy exercise," Darlene said. "I'm trying to teach you omething."

Estie clutched the sparkling bag to her belly. She hunched over it, as if she was expecting it to be snatched from her if she didn't hang on.

"If the bag means so much to her, why don't you give it to her." That was Dani. Ever wise to any chance to make trouble.

"By the way, Dani," Darlene interjected smoothly, "you'll be getting a one for not participating in the exercise --- unless you plan to go back to your bedroom to get something to share." Darlene smiled sweetly and dangerously, showing all her teeth.

Dani refused. She got her one. Estie and the Lieber bag were somehow forgotten while Dani got sent off to her room for a time out, as if she was a toddler instead of a 22-year-old with Double D bra cups that made her an highly paid pole dancer.

When it was Old Girl's turn, OG held up a ratty Hello Kitty backpack without saying a word, as if the dirty half-rubbed off illustration of the cat with the X'd out eye said everything she willing to say.

"Anything you can add to help us understand why that pack is important to you?" said Darlene.

"It has clean underwear in it." Old Girl said.

Lydia, who made a habit of knowing what was in people's purses and packs, knew that was a small knitted hat with floppy ears like a beagle at the bottom of OG's pack. She'd pulled the baby hat out one day when she needed to borrow a pen. Old Girl screamed at her. "Don't touch that! It's my baby brother's!"

Just to needle her, Lydia said, "Your brother's baby hat is in there. Why won't you admit it?"

"Stay out of my business, bitch!"

Old Girl got one for hostility; Lydia got a one for inciting a peer. It was definitely worth it. OG thought she could get away with bogarding her privacy? Well, two could play at that game.

While the "sharing" joy was inching around to Lydia, she tried to figure out what to say. The night of the fire, she'd stuffed the small sketch book in her underwear down the back of her pajamas so it wouldn't fall out. No one could possibly have seen it.

Why she'd grabbed the sketchbook, rather than her diamond earrings or her Lieber purse, wasn't all that clear to Lydia. She hadn't drawn in the book after the ten week summer tour of the National Parks was over. The trip was one of those "get Lydia out of Rahel's hair" summer tours offered by the boarding school in Lausanne that Rahel shipped her to while she lived in Paris.

They'd tramped through ten national western parks and a couple in Canada, a different park every week, making the grand tour of Yellowstone, Gran Targhee, Jackson Hole, Sequoia, Yosemite, Mt. St. Helen's, Mt. Rainier, the North Cascades, and Banff-Lake Louise, plus a few she couldn't remember since the trails all melded together into one long trail of blue mountains and red cedars and boulder-strewn slopes. They hiked 600 miles. After the first two weeks, the foot blisters and sore legs subsided and twelve teens who ranged from 15- to 18-years-old became fit as mountain goats. Two experienced guides led them, Carlo, a emergency room nurse, and Gracie, a grad student getting a Ph.D in Botany, who took a liking to Lydia.

Lydia was fourteen, by far the baby of the group. Fifteen was the official age cut-off but because her birthday fell during the last week of hiking camp, the organization let her in under the wire. Rachel probably shoved her to the front of the list with a healthy donation to the cause.

Maybe her sketch book wasn't so bad. Maybe she should just bring out the drawings and explain how fun and calming the Park's tour had been. How Gracie's pride in her, her continuous interest, had made her feel both safe and cared for. Was that it? Jesus! Had she fallen in love with a big, horse-faced woman with the world's biggest ass?

Gracie was kind. She kept an eye out for Lydia. Warned her on the days when the elevation would be hard, checked in on her to tell her she was doing fine, looked at her drawings with a no-bull-shit eye and pointed out how to sharpen the details or correct the light or try a new composition. "That's interesting," she would say, tilting her head like a puzzled dog. Or, "I never would have thought of that."

"Is that what you saved from your room?" Darlene nodded at the pillow Lydia held over the sketchbook on her lap. It was covered with a Guatemalan-style fabric illustrated with a picture of two people having dog sex. Darlene's voice, nasal and reedy, pulled her back to the present. She'd palmed the sketchbook under the pillow although she could feel a corner of it nestled in her hand.

"Lydia, I wish you'd pay attention."

"I am" she said, but she wasn't. Not really. She was high on Windy Pass in the North Cascades, trying to capture a strange plant that looked like a wookie on a thin, swaying stalk. She couldn't remember a time when she had been so still, so content to be in her body. Not worrying about what she could or could not eat, or wondering who was looking at her or what she could get out of them. On the hiking tour, she ate what they gave her or she went hungry. She slept when the sun went down. Sat when the leader called a halt. Did chores like everybody else. And somehow all her inner nattering and chattering, all the anxieties of what she looked like, what she wore, who liked her or hated her, disappeared for those months. She lived in a walking bubble of existence where time was always in the present. The people on the trail with her wore the same clothes, smelled of the same acrid sweat, ate the same granola and freeze dried meals. They even dumped on the same schedule with what was described in the brochure as "a whole food diet." And for six hundred miles, it was enough.

Irreplaceable? Essential as breathing, was how Lydia was now thinking of the sketch book created during the one time in her life when she was in her body and actually okay with it.

Lydia set the pillow on the carpet so it covered the sketch book. Then she stood up and hopped on one leg, then the other, while she pulled off her boots. "Ferragamos! \$1200 on sale!" she lied, holding them up. She never bought anything on sale. It just made things cheap.

"Is that for one or for two?" Dani asked

Reza blew a raspberry and muttered to Dani, "Show off."

Everybody else groaned.

Darlene gritted her teeth but gestured to her to go ahead. "Tell us why you picked your boots, no grandstanding."

"Well..." Lydia was actually thinking about her La Sportiva hiking boots after the tour, nicely broken in, as comfortable and supportive as old friends. "...they're practical... and warm... and they fit me."

"And?" Darlene prompted. "What do they mean to you."

"What," Lydia said. "Half of you assholes ran out in the snow in flip flops. At least I chose boots.

"Well, something to think about!" Darlene finally drew Process to a close in her Pollyanna voice. "What's important at the last second isn't clothes or money or the latest technology, is it?"

James said, "We don't have the latest technology. You took it away from us."

"Yes, but you get the idea."

Rachel followed Lydia down the hall when they went back to their rooms. She was speaking to Lydia's retreating back when she said, "I'm on to you."

Lydia didn't turn around. Could the idiot black girl read how her back stiffened? How much she wanted to turn around and ask what she meant?

"What's in that notebook you're trying to hide," Rachel asked. "Those boots were total bull shit."

"What makes you so smart? Mind your own business."

Lydia stomped faster toward her room, the heels of the Ferragamos making a satisfying shut-the-fuck-up sound. Her hand was on the door knob of her room when she caught the sound of a soft laugh behind her.

"You're not as bad as you want everybody to think."

"You're full of shit."

"Everybody hides what they care about," the girl said. "It's basic survival."

"So you didn't care about that photo album?"

"No, I cared about one photo in it. I just didn't say which photo I would have walked through the fire to save."

"You may know what you think but you don't know what I think."

"I was in that blanket with you, stupid. I felt something sharp and flat when you leaned back against me. That doesn't make me smart. Just observant." She touched a finger to Lydia's wrist. "You were wearing tennis shoes that night. Not boots."

"What size are your feet?" Lydia was surprised to hear herself ask.

"Sevens. Why?"

Lydia sat down in the hall and threw first one boot, then the other at Rachel's feet. "I don't want them. Take them and stay away from me."

Rachel's expression reminded Lydia of the day she'd had her epileptic fit. A fish gasping for breath. "I don't want your fancy boots! I wasn't going to tell anyone. I just wanted you to know that I was onto you. You're not so bad. What's wrong with that?"

Lydia shut her room door in Rachel's astonished face.

Lydia was breathing hard. She could feel Rachel staring at her through the door's molecules and then she heard the thunk-thunk of one boot, then another, whack the door. Rachel's voice was as loud in Lydia's ears as if she was in the same room. "I take it back. You're asshole. Suck on that."
