---
uid: 01KAGVT1BVJTQ0V7GR0G5TWS5V
project: you-da-hoe
source_file: 36. Lydia gives Lorenzo the cat bag.docx
converted_date: '2025-11-24T17:18:23.730579'
wordcount: 1610
version: 1
---

36\.

"I'D WANT TO KILL SOMEBODY." LYDIA SAID. "Aren't you mad?"

Lorenzo was taking a swallow from the coffee cup they were sharing at Grumpy Monkey Grind House on Elm. "It's more like I'm disgusted with myself. Ashamed."

"You're ashamed because your stepfather is an asshole?"

"No." He pulled out a rusty curl and it sprang back to mate with the other wiry coils that haloed his head. "It's just... Mormons believe family is everything. LDS takes care of LDS. And then Deacon Twistle turns around and drops me off in Salt Lake with a suitcase and a \$100 bill? How could I have been so stupid? "

Lydia adjusted herself in the chair, mutely aware of the safety pin digging into her thigh. If she sat one way, she could get away from its piercing fire. The trick was to continually change positions so that the pin could dig in to a new place and punish her with sharp, but intermittent pain.

"How come you keep squirming around?" Lorenzo said. "You look like you sat on a hockey stick."

Lydia blinked. Lorenzo would never in a million years understand why she had to punish herself for all the shit she'd done. "Oh, it's just this stupid chair. It's uncomfortable."

"So sit in this one." Lorenzo got up and brought a smaller, cushioned chair over from the table next to them.

"Who taught you to be Mr. Polite?"

"Manners help when you're homeless," he said. "You won't believe how nice people are to you when you say please for a ketchup packet that's going to be dinner."

Lydia sat up. Ignored the pin. ""You're kidding. Aren't you?" The idea that Lorenzo was hungry---that he might have gone without a meal last night---astonished her. She couldn't imagine someone starving in a coffee shop where people were paying \$3.50 for a latte and \$4.00 for a scone. In a lull in the chatter around them, Lorenzo's stomach rumbled. That confirmed it. She was sitting across from a real person who didn't have enough to eat.

How was that possible in America? She leaned forward to take his hand and nearly jumped out of her chair. Breathe, she told herself. Eat the pain.

"Here. Sell this." She pushed the Judith Lieber bag at him, using every ounce of control she had to keep her butt in the chair, the gasp of pain in her throat.

Lorenzo was watching her with a sympathetic expression, as if he thought she was sick . "I'd never take something of yours."

For a second, the selfish part of her was thankful that he wasn't going to take the bag. She remembered her mother buying it at Harrod's on Kensington Avenue in London. Later the same day, Rachel got mad because she thought the red of the Swarovsky crystals on the cat's eyes didn't go with the red of her cocktail dress. When she let Lydia have it, she'd gotten some lipstick on the lining and it was too much trouble to return it.

"This old thing? Really, I couldn't care less about it." To Lydia, it seemed that it wasn't her hand but instead, the cat moving of its own volition toward Lorenzo's side of the table. Why was the pin suddenly driving her crazy? It had been minding its own business tucked in her underwear seam when she ordered their coffee and now it was on a mission to impale her in her most tender parts. She forced herself to sit back, away from the bag, her face impassive. Between the pain in her inner thigh and the pain of keeping her hand away from the bag, she felt as if she about to pass out. "Go ahead. Take it."

"I can't. It's yours." His refusal T-boned into her with the surprise of a car wreck.

"If you take it to Luxe for Less on E. Locust, you'll be amazed what they'll give you for it. Don't take less than \$500 for it."

"Why are you being so nice to me? You don't even know me."

I know enough about you, she told herself.

"It's too much. I can't take it."

"It's a designer bag. Big money. It's even signed by Judith Lieber. That means it's worth more." For some reason, she was embarrassed to tell him that her mother had originally paid four grand for a dumb evening bag that she ended up not wearing because the eyes weren't the right red. Lorenzo, dressed in army surplus pants and a tee shirt that said "I can't believe Jesus called me a Dick," couldn't even imagine that things like a Lieber bag existed in the world. How would he know that it was the world she belonged to?

No. Never. Absolutely. Homeless Lorenzo was as obdurate as a stone. Categorically, no. Thank you very much. Never. He would not take the bag for love nor money. His words, not hers.

She tried reasoning with him. Luxe'll give you cash for it. For it, no questions asked."

"I don't care."

"You're pretty principled for someone who's broke and living on the streets."

"McDonald's pays me at the end of the week," he said. "I'll make it."

She was so disgusted, she wanted to slap the purse in his wind-chapped, earnest face. "God helps those who help themselves!" she shouted. God knew where the phrase came from. It wasn't from her grandfather, who was Jewish, and it sure as shit didn't come from Rahel. A long-forgotten au pair? One of the limousine drivers?

She pushed her chair back and ended up tipping it over. When she stomped towards the door, the chair scraped the floor boards as he righted it. "Wait, don't..."

She slammed the door and cut his words off with a bang.

All the way back to campus, she muttered dick-turd-bastard-asshole-jerkoff- twat-cunt-fucker-fuck-off-fuck-for-brains-fuckity-shitting-shithead-dick. Why was it Lydia was always the bitch! She made one uncharacteristic attempt to help somebody and he threw it back in her face, the fucking idiot.

In bed that night, she woke four or five times in the night, wondering what in the fucking hell was wrong with Lorenzo the Lunk Head.

The breakfast bell went off the next morning. She was still lying in bed, the closet door open the way Estie liked it, even though she was still locked up in Stable. The spot where the bag always sat on the shelf so Estie could see it first thing was empty. She felt a terrible pang of loss, not just for herself, but for Estie. What she really wanted to do was to find the L-hole and snatch the bag back. He was so stupid, he'd probably settle for \$50 from the consignment store, not understanding the cat bag was worth a hundred times that since they weren't made anymore.

Then the realization hit her. Oh fucking fuckity fuck fuck! Lydia's Sociology notes were in the Lieber bag. So was the homework that was due today. Now she'd have to talk track down Lorenzo and ask for her papers back.

No good deed goes unpunished. Why was it Lydia always had to learn that lesson the hard way?

Later in the day, during session, Darlene asked her what had her so worked up. Lydia's Daily Living report showed four ones in three days. "Now you just cursed at me and all I did was ask you "how's it going." Why are you so ugly to everybody around you?"

"I'm just mad." Her own voice sounded whiny and pathetic.

"I get that," Darlene said. "But why? What are you mad about?"

She blew out a breath and a sloppy curl flopped into one eye. She pushed it away viciously. "I need a pair of scissors."

"What for?"

"To get rid of this." She pulled the coil of springy hair out until it stretched below her nose. "It's bugging me."

Darlene moved behind her desk and handed her an ancient orange-handled scissors.

She held the hank out straight and instead of trimming off two inches as she intended, she whacked off a chunk of hair right at her hairline. It amazed her to see five inches of springy coil dangling from her fingers.

Darlene took the scissors back and dropped them in the desk drawer. "Great. Nw you've got a cowlick where you used to have a curl. How about if you tell me the truth before you snatch yourself bald?"

\"I can't believe I did that."

Lydia's rational brain was shocked but then again, another part of her was drawn to the idea of cutting off every hair to the root. That would fix her.

"I tried to help somebody today" She kept her voice low so it didn't crack. "He wouldn't let me."

"Go on."

"He... his name is Lorenzo," she said. "He's homeless. I met him at NICC."

Darlene waited.

In dribs and drabs, Lorenzo's refusal to take the winking cat bag came out and by time she got to how his stepfather had dumped him in Salt Lake City, the back of her eyeballs were itching and hot. Her favorite yellow and white Yves St. Laurent scarf felt like it a strangling cord and she could hardly choke out the story over the ache. When she finally admitted that she'd given away Estie's favorite cat without thinking about how she would feel, Darlene moved a small stack of books out of the way and shoved a Kleenex box towards her. The book on top was, "The Drama of the Gifted Child."

Darlene tentatively placed a warm hand over Lydia's cold one. She started to cry, leaving the tissues untouched.
