---
uid: 01KAGWKX9T2ACBWMH5Q6BF1FX6
project: you-da-hoe
source_file: 37. Lydia shows Josh her essay about sex with people she doesn't know.docx
converted_date: '2025-11-24T12:20:04.721989'
wordcount: 2377
version: 1
---

37\.

Darlene had a migraine or some lame excuse for missing their session which is why Lydia found herself looking up and up at Josh from her yoga position on the floor in the Crying Office.

He looked regal with his dark ebony skin and yellow eyes that seemed to Xray right through her. About the only thing she knew about Josh as a therapist, besides the fact that he was black, was that James thought he was OK. Which meant that he wasn't a dick or an idiot or a suck-up like Lydia's old therapist in Detroit. But who knew. Maybe what was okay for James would be a nightmare for her.

"What are you working on with Darlene?" Josh was skimming notes from her case file and she wondered how long it would take for him to get down to it. Maybe never since he wasn't onto her like Darlene.

"She wants to know why I like sex."

"Hmmm." He used his third finger to flip through the pages and the pink on the underside of long spatulate fingers shone through as if light was trying to bleed through. "Sex with anybody in particular?"\
"Everybody in general," she said.

"Are you not very particular? Is that what she's trying to get you to think about?"

Okay, down to it pretty fast. "She wants to know why I like sex with people who don't care about me."

"Did you come to any conclusions?"

Lydia sighed and tucked her tights-clad legs into a reverse yoga cross, feet laid parallel to her thighs. "Isn't the answer in my file?"

"It says here you like to play games."

"Is that on page 1 or 100?"

"Both."

She smiled. It was so much easier when your therapist had a sense of humor.

"She made me write an essay about it this week."

"Want to share?"

"Not especially. Do you want to talk about your sex life?"

"That's fair. But my wife wouldn't appreciate it."

Hmmm.

He continued perusing the pages, occasionally flipping back to a place he'd stuck his left hand in to mark it. She could guess what that was. "How do you like Darlene?"

"I don't want to have sex with her, if that's what you're asking."

"It wasn't. It says here you've asked her to have sex though ..." here, he flipped back to and forth, "three times. Was that what she meant by game playing?"

"I'm not into sex with people who care about me."

"So your reason for not having sex with Darlene is because she cares?"

She was surprised at where his questions were leading, since she'd thought she would be the one leading him. "No way! She's old... way old. And wrinkly."

"She's 38. Same age as I am."

"You look better."

"Is that a compliment? Or a prelude to sex with you?"

"Do you want it to be?"

He set the manila file on the table. Walked around the front edge of the desk so he was in looking down on her face as she angled one leg up the wall for a stretch. "How about you stop with the games and read me what you wrote. The notes say you're supposed to explain why indiscriminate sex with people who don't care about you is good for you." He tilted his regal head so one lion-yellow eye speared her. "So convince me."

His manner reminded her of some old story she heard at synagogue crèche one day while Grandpa Ben was two floors above her listening to a rabbi sing through his nose. King Somebody -- King David? King Israel?---raised a baby up over a chopping block. Convince me why I shouldn't cut this infant in half, the King ordered the wailing mothers.

She climbed out of her stretch and scrabbled in her back pack for the note book with a large black doodle of hearts and flowers that read, "Fuck me." She'd spent the last couple of days adding answers to Darlene\'s question. Every time a new thought occurred to her, she'd start the answer out with the word "Because." She was surprised to see how many pages of Becauses had piled up since Monday.

*Because it fills up the time* flitted through her consciousness but she decided not to jot it in the notebook because Josh would think she hadn't done the homework if he saw her writing at the last minute.

She cleared her throat and read in a low monotone."Why sex is better with people who don't care about you."

***Because*** if James or Jed or even Austen who got fired for having sex with me since I was his patient---because if any of those people or any others liked me, it would be evidence that they were fucked up. If they want me in their club, I don't want to belong to it.

**Because** if I like my sex partners, there's something wrong with them.

***Because*** sex is a transaction with clearly defined boundaries and no leakage (except of bodies), thus there is no confusion about why either party is doing it.

***Because*** if they cared, it would be cloying or suffocating or pushy or like being in a box of expectations under someone else's control.

***Because*** if they cared about me, they would expect me to care about them back and it's easier and less complicated to leave them before they leave you first.

***Because*** people who don't care still put up a reasonable facsimile of caring; they fondle and pet and kiss and lick like the real thing and it's easy to close your eyes and imagine that this is the way it should be.

***Because*** I can control the where and when and in what orifice depending on how I want it. Want to do it in the closet outside the Principal's office and wipe your spunk off on the hem of Mrs. Daily's raincoat? Great! Want to stand behind me on the gym balcony parapet and fuck me from behind while the Pep squad performs below us and the squeak of the rubber shoes on the floor boards covers up your groans? Exciting. If you can imagine it, I can make it happen for you because there's no limit to the rush I get when you breathe in my ear, "Lydia, you make me fucking crazy."

***Because*** the whole point is not for me to get off, the point is to get you off and make you want me again and again so I can say, "No thanks, I'm bored," when you want me so much you'd put your dick in my mouth in front of your mother.

***Because*** having sex is no different than blowing your nose or throwing up some bad chicken or watching yourself bleed from a self-inflicted cut. It's just one way to feel something in your body. Sometimes taking a dump works equally well.

***Because*** they don't dole out love in the condom machines, it's too expensive. Use your quarters for something that doesn't cost so much.

***Because*** not caring keeps things polite. It's bad form to pretend the act has meaning when all it is adds up to "put Tab B in Slot A" until you both explode.

***Because*** sex is all I want. It's what I deserve.

***Because*** sex smells good, especially if you're out of expensive perfume. Guys smell it on you and they always want their spunk to replace the spunk that came before.

**Because** a young body deserves an old body's gratitude.

***Because*** it takes less time to give a blow job than to do 20 differential equations or study for an algebra test.

***Because*** sex feels better than cutting for a minute. A numb, cotton wool existence is relieved by a flash of red, bursting light. You feel alive and in control of your essential self for a short, instant until the brightness dims and you're dwindle back to gray.

***Because*** it almost feels like they care about you. For one clawing, reaching instant when your partner trembles on the edge of losing his essential self, you're the only thing in the world. Maybe it's the same feeling the vampire gets when his needle-sharp teeth break through a victim\'s skin. The victim jerks and you know absolutely, categorically, you're in a vein.

**Because** every long white bird looks better in a nest.

The pause after Lydia stopped speaking lengthened. Air whooshed and hummed on its forced journey through a duct. "Good work," Josh finally said. "Thorough. Well thought-out."

"Did I do it right?" she asked.

"I'm not sure there is a right way to answer that question."

"I meant... umm... did I explain myself? Convince you?"

"You convinced me there are a lot of reasons why you do what you do. Some of them make a lot of sense."

"So I'm not crazy?"

"You can be crazy and still make sense." "You use sex for barter, sex for boredom, sex for penance, sex for power, sex for comfort, sex for money..." He ticked off the list on long light-bleeding fingers, "...sex for shock, sex for ego gratification, sex as a substitute for a thank you note, sex for notches on your belt, sex for food or rides or cigarettes."

He stopped. Tilted his head. "Do you smoke?"'

She shook her head.

At his quizzical look, she said, "It makes your breath smell bad."

"So why trade sex for it?"

"Cigarettes are money here. If you have cigs, you don't have to do chores. You can buy candy."

\"Ah.\"

This was either the longest or the shortest therapy session in her experience because time seemed to bloom outward at the same instant it fell inward in Josh's presence.

"Did I miss anything? Anything else you use sex for?"

Lydia said, "It helps you lose weight. Because you're burning calories."

"It's not on the Weight Watcher's point system," he said. "But then again, if you take an average size man and roll him off of you, you could lose what do you think---180- maybe, 200 pounds of dead weight?"

He was joking? A choked laugh escaped her.

Josh tapped the side of his nose. "OK, oh wise one, you have to use that brain you're so used to hiding under all those curls. What is missing from this list? What is it that most people want from sex?"

For the life of her, she couldn't think of anything that wasn't listed in neat girlish handwriting drilled into her by Frau Grabrauber at the Alliance Francaise.

"The big O?"

"Only partially. How about common caring?" Josh asked. "Comfort? A sense of safety? Warmth? And let's not get complicated by talking about the "L" word.'"

"Lust. Love. They're the same thing."

"No they're not." Josh's gaze seemed to travel through her skin to the ugliness underneath. "Did it occur to you that you're going to hurt yourself if you keep doing this?"

Lydia snorted. "I'm in control," she said. "I can stop whenever I want."

Outside a garbage truck screamed like a wounded animal. Its dump mechanism rumbled as a heavy load of throwaways got swallowed up in its maw. Lydia flashed on what it would feel like to churn in the stink and darkness, knowing she'd never get out.

"You think you're always in control when you have sex?"

"Sure. They want me."

"Have you ever had it rough? Not everyone wants to be controlled."

"Rough can be fun."

"How rough? In the ass? With a bottle? It happens Lydia and I guarantee there'll be a time when you won't be in control."

A random ray of light broke through the overcast sky and lit his dark face. He was leaning forward, really concentrating on her in contrast to Darlene's distracted air as she knitted and cast on and off and counted stitches.

"My grandfather would sue the shit out of them in they hurt me."

Josh smiled without humor. "That's after it's over. What about when they're whaling the shit out of you? Where's your precious control then?"

The sound of a knife cutting through a cantaloupe at breakfast came back to her.

"I thought we were talking about having sex with you! How'd we get from that to taking it up the ass?"

"See. You can't even control the direction of this conversation. I've got a lot of training. Other men just use their fists."

She wasn't exactly buying what he was saying but then she didn't dismiss it out of hand either which is what she was used to doing in her sessions with Darlene. Was it Josh's rational, plain-speaking voice? Or the way he cut through the crap without a bunch of therapy speak.

"You're not bad at this," she said.

"What?"

"Did you learn to burn your patient's skin off and then rub some gravel in the red part at school."

"Thank you. I think."

She'd heard the case clock had bing-bong the half hour and they were already five minutes over. "You're welcome, now let's see if I can ooze myself out of here before you say anything worse."

"You think you'll break but most people can bend pretty far before that happens."

" Is it possible to ooze to death before you bleed to death?"

"Probably."

On her way out the door, Josh shocked her by patting her lightly on her upper back. In all the time she had been at Inner Horizons, she could not remember a time when someone had voluntarily touched her. Therapy was therapy; God forbid they make you think they cared.

Huh, she thought, as she stood at the pick-up bench watching the Healing House van splash a rooster of slush behind it. That didn't go like usual.

What was it about Josh that was different? She had the feeling that he had met her where she was, no matter how small and grub-like he found her. Could a grub form into something more than a grub, even excruciatingly slowly?

Then a novel thought hit her. Was Josh the reason James had stopped fucking her? Maybe it wasn't about her at all. If James could care for himself, was it a remote possibility that she could decide to take care of herself too?
