---
uid: 01KAGVQYSPGGDJRQSMJSXEY1VF
project: you-da-hoe
source_file: 39. James wakes up to the crow.docx
converted_date: '2025-11-24T17:40:04.371028'
wordcount: 590
version: 1
---

\<\$W\>

JAMES SLEPT DEEPLY SUBMERGED IN DARK WATER like the moose.

He floated for a long time, rising up through blackness, through brackishness, through blue dimness before the world of his dorm room revealed itself in gray oyster light. Fuck. He wanted to go for a run in the worst way. He\'d seen people running occasionally on the Idaho roads, covered in wool hats and tights and gloves. It was a wonder how they managed to stay upright on the mornings when black ice hid under the deceptive blanket of snow.

He remembered stopping a runner who loped past the van at the NICC drop-off when Margaret was at the wheel. He'd ignored Margaret\'s screech \-- \"James! You nimrod! Get back here! \-- so he could ask, "What are you putting on your shoes?\"

The grizzled dude pulled his foot up like he was stretching his quad in order to show screw heads poking up through the waffle weave. \"Idaho cleat,\" he said. "Two inch screws work best. Carpet tacks are OK but they wear out too fast.\"

James lay with his head on the pillow, contemplating the ceiling light. He was wondering how in hell he was going to get his hands on a hammer or anything sharper than a toothpick.

An odd smell intruded on his thoughts. He peered across the room in the gray light for Reza's shoes. He\'d told his dickwad roommate to leave the foul, sweat-stained Vans out in the hall. He couldn\'t see them but that didn\'t mean Reza hadn\'t stashed them under the bed or in the closet. James would have to bury them in the trash bin next to the garage so Reza wouldn't find them. He'd piss and moan. Too bad. Vans out of sight, Vans out of mind.

The smell was sweetish. Very strong. James sat up and switched on the light.

The door swung open. Reza walked through the door clad in tee shirt and jockey shorts, the slopped-on shoes affixed to his skinny feet. Ever since James's Monkey Boy comment and his abortive apology, Reza had kept his distance. He was mulish, somehow, his small body plank-like and stiff. It wasn't that he had stopped talking -- that was never going to happen -- but he talked mostly to himself. In the days pre-apology, Reza used to want James' attention; now he didn't give a shit if he was listening.

A tinny buzz emanated from Reza's head as if he was traveling with a swarm of bees. He was wearing the ear muffs he'd stuffed with miniature radio receivers. Therapists with Harvard degrees couldn't figure out that Reza was perpetually rocking out to Sound Garden instead of always being cold.

He had an odd, quizzical expression on his face.

"What?"

"What\'s that thing under your pillow?\"

James turned to look behind him where Reza was pointing. Something wet and dark was leaking on the sheets. James grabbed the pillow he\'d just been laying on and held it out, away from his body. \"Holy fuck!\"

A black crow lay flattened on the bed sheet with outstretched wings. Where its belly should have been, a purple mass of guts was dotted with slowly moving, fat gray blobs. Maggots in seeping flesh.

James and Reza bolted for the door at the same instant.

Reza shouldered through the door a second ahead of James who had to make a standing leap.

\"Margaret!" James shouted.

"Margaret!\" Reza shouted louder.

Their voices echoed down the hall like young children howling for their mother.

\#
