---
uid: 01KAGWDCFXWPFASYF9VSXST4HC
project: you-da-hoe
source_file: 4-17-14_Rusty.docx
converted_date: '2025-11-24T12:21:49.244033'
wordcount: 745
version: 1
---

4/17/14

Rusty

I\'ve chosen a low rent \"impoverished\" character without many gifts in Rusty. He\'s from the Jukes and Kallikaks and Beans of Egypt Maine milieu: uneducated, abused, neglected. All he knows is garbage; that he\'s got a handle on. He doesn\'t smell the stink anymore: it\'s on his skin, in his hair, on his clothing, in the grease from hamburger and French fry wrappings that dot a trailer that\'s never been cleaned. His living space, in all its mess, mirrors his inner chaos and his hunger for respect and warmth. He\'s like a junk yard dog, beaten, starved but he must have some humanity. He wants, longs for connection like all people, he just doesn\'t know how to get it except to steal it.

What is the inciting incident that propels him toward kidnapping Rachel: he sees her wrapped in a blanket by her friends and he wants to be in there with her. He has a fleeting and ghost-edged memory of an old blanket he used to drag around, it kept losing bits and pieces of fiber continually getting smaller and smaller until it was no longer a blanket but just a clump of rags.

Underneath he\'s resentful and suspicious of most people. He\'s known to drive a hard bargain at the dump. He\'s a picker--used to spotting shiny objects in the crap people throw away. He thinks of Rachel\'s blond hair and clean skin as something that stands apart from the stink and dirt of his existence.

All he can feel is want and resentment. He\'s hungry, damnit. If nobody will feed him, he has to grab it and feed himself.

What does Rusty love?

Is he like a magpie, a collector of shiny things lost in the clutter? He looks in all the pockets of clothing people throw out; he has a diamond he found in an old lady\'s coat. It was in an envelope marked \"Joan?\" and he has no idea who Joan was but he had the stone appraised and the jeweler told him it was a good one. He\'d been thinking of putting it into a tie clip. He\'s like to wear it as an earring but he was afraid it would make him look like he was gay though what he was going for was the look of a pirate--dark and swarthy with a gleaming rock in his earlobe so he looked dangerous and frightening.

\*His collection has old-fashioned perfume bottles shaped like female waists and hips, a few Christmas ornaments still in their nests of paper, a glass doorknob that reflected light like a prism, a small assortment of gold earrings--hoops, teardrops, one gold globe that looked like a miniature earth, and the centerpiece of everything, the diamond he found in an old lady\'s coat pocket with a mothball.

What upends expectations here?

Rusty has few gifts himself but he throws his heart into giving Rachel a home in the container. It\'s a weird kind of home-- no windows, a padlock the size of a man\'s hand with 2-inch chain-- but it also has a rocking chair and an white afghan he took to the cleaners, still in its plastic sheeting, plus a small assortment of foamy bath soaps and shampoo and conditioners. He didn\'t know much about how girls kept their hair shiny except what he\'d seen on TV so he brought a lot of trial--size bottles, hoping one of them would be to her liking.

He got a kid\'s kind of enjoyment from planning out its every detail like he was building a doll house with teeny-tiny rocker a velvet couch and a four poster bed. Flannel sheets. He put it on the list he kept in his breast pocket with a golf pencil he\'d nibbled with teeth marks. He\'d run electricity out to the container but he was not wild about having a spare heater since the fire that had burned up the old trailer he\'d grown up in. Flannel sheets and one of those heavy quilts made out of men\'s suits he\'d noticed hanging in the window of the thrift store he always sold to.

What is the shadow side of me that\'s in Rusty?

He wants what he wants everybody else be damned. He\'s been neglected and he\'s stunted in his development like I was stunted in my relationships with neglectful men.

Armored prose--- erects language as a barrier Hitchcock\'s hears of dialogue

\"excitation of the mirror\_\_\_\" affect of reading attentiveness.
