---
uid: 01KAGWJW9R98EY168SCSGT1PNR
project: you-da-hoe
source_file: 40. James backslides with dope and sex.docx
converted_date: '2025-11-24T12:20:19.888358'
wordcount: 1109
version: 1
---

\<\$W\>

THERE WAS THIS OKAY-LOOKING Idaho girl in English class who sat next to James. He'd noticed her because she was always popping her gum. Annoying but kind of sexy, in a country kind of way. She had a thing for red, white and blue spangles and cowboy boots. Her notebook sported a glossy picture of Shania Twain in cut-offs and she'd written on the front in loopy gold letters, \"That Don\'t Impress Me Much.\" Shania Twain was so out of the California mainstream, she could have been from an alternate universe. James was used to "Do you know the wae" memes and the teeth-chattering Vine of Kermit the frog shaking from all the pressure to get into a good college. Anxiety, LOL! This girl didn't look like she suffered any anxiety about life except maybe whether it was better to take a few classes at NICC or get paid minimum wage making French fries.

Girls in Malibu middle school had decorated their notebooks with Project Runway collages and sayings like "Fierce!" and "I want to be Heidi." Idaho was born behind the times so maybe college girl notebook styles were just another sign of backwardness. Look at that kid in the back of the class who wore black Converse high tops way after not a soul in California would be caught dead in them.

Last week, the country girl offered to let him look at her test when Professor Williams gave them a pop quiz.

James had refused, politely, but today, she passed him a note while Prof. Williams handed back their tests. James put his hand over the A- on the top of his paper while she slid her C- and urgent red "See me!" note under Shania Twain. He could feel her eyes on him as he read the teacher's note on his Huck Finn paper that said it would have been an A if it wasn't late.

\"Got some new weed from Tijuana," her note said. "Want to try it?\"

Did a bear shit in the woods?

After class, she walked him out to a mud-covered Tundra truck in the parking lot. When James asked her what the deal was with the mammoth trailer hitch on the back, she said she was a barrel rider. She turned her back to show him the spangled Indian warbonnet sewn onto a denim jacket. "Wow. '*Queen of the Idaho Warbonnet Rodeo Since 1911,"* he read out loud. " You don\'t look that old."

She snorted, not unattractively.

Prof. Williams had this weird habit of calling all the girls Miss So-and-So. Today he'd called her Miss Tempter. "What\'s your real name?\" he asked.

\"Candy,."

It was James's turn to snort. \"Candy Tempter? That's hilarious."

"Not Tempter---Tremper.\"

\"Bummer." Tempter was way closer to the mark as she expertly rolled a jay between red lacquered nails and got out a lighter.

They were parked in the big lot right in front of the NICC Student Commons, a few rows away from the bench where Margaret picked them up and dropped them off. It was close to three. Margaret was due at 3:15. He had plenty of time to chill and besides, they were parked way back near the fence where nobody would notice.

\"Ladies first,\" he said when she offered him the blunt. She put the blunt between red glossy lips and and sucked in and handed it over.

James hadn\'t had any weed since the night of the disastrous Tequila and weed and Circle K night in Topanga Canyon. He inhaled the familiar, calming smell and he felt the familiar slow relaxing of his veins. He leaned over to pass the joint back.

Rap! Rap! Rap! \"James Olson! You get the hell out of that truck!"

Oh holy shit.

Margaret was standing, hands on her hips, outside the truck, glaring at him as if he\'d beaten her dog.

\"Whoops,\" he said to Candy. "This is slightly awkward."

Candy\'s eyebrows flickered up with astonishment.\"Who the hell is that? Your mother?\"

\"Um.. no. We're ... not related. She\'s\...\" He had no idea how to describe Margaret. An avenging angel? The vacuum Nazi? A go-fer and van driver and sometime cook and all-the-time police?

Rap! RAAAP! It sounded like Margaret was about to put her fist through the glass. James opened the passenger door and shrugged apologetically and jumped down.

\"Thanks for the Shakespeare notes,\" he said, as the smell of weed smell unfurled around him like a runaway snake. Margaret got him up by his elbow and she frog marched him away from Candy and her tempting truck all the way across the parking lot to the van.

\"What the hell are you thinking, you nimno? You\'ve been doing so well. Now you blow it when you're just getting it together?" She turned back, mid-rant, and shouted at Candy who was watching them with wide blue eyes. \"Stay the hell away from him! Can\'t you see he\'s recovering?\"

James felt like he'd shrunk a few inches. He couldn\'t believe how easy it had been to pick up a joint when he\'d sworn he wouldn\'t ever touch one again. It had seemed so instinctive, so familiar and so normal in its familiarity, like being asked if you wanted a Coke or a drink of water and your mouth said yes before your brain agreed. He didn't give a shit about the Inner Horizons agreement to take no drugs that everybody signed when they got to the program; what appalled him was how easy it had been to go blindly against the rule he'd set for himself.

Margaret made him sit up front with her. Nobody else was there yet. According to his watch, James still had five minutes of freedom which he assumed was going to be spent having his ears blistered off. Instead Margaret said calmly, \"Good thing I got here early.\"

\"Why? So you could embarrass the shit out of me?"

\"So I could save you from yourself, nimrod.\"

What the hell was a nimrod? Or a nimno? Some kind of Idaho sheep shit, she had that right.

\"Are you going to write me up?\"

\"Should I?\"

\"I didn\'t inhale,\" he said with asperity.

Inexplicably, Margaret laughed. A big har-har-har Idaho laugh, unaffected and open. He had no clue what the big woman thought was so funny and it would be a decade or more before he heard the phrase \"I didn\'t inhale\" at a party with people of his parent\'s generation who\'d been around when Bill Clinton was president. It would be funny how he would remember Margaret\'s laugh like it was yesterday, when he hadn\'t heard it in years.
