---
uid: 01KAGW756FV2CNH92YCG50CYAC
project: you-da-hoe
source_file: 41. Margaret rescues Lydia from Jed.docx
converted_date: '2025-11-24T12:23:32.165869'
wordcount: 1127
version: 1
---

41\.

"HOLY GUACAMOLE!" MARGARET SHOUTED. "You didn\'t inhale and now look at fucking Lydia.\"

James glanced over and it turned out "fucking Lydia" was pretty accurate. She was half-undressed in the front seat of a pick-up truck with a man a few parking spaces away.

Margaret heaved herself out of the front seat. Before James had time to register what she was up to, she dove back in the van, pawed around in the seat well, hoisted up her big-ass purse and strode three parking spaces away like an avenging angel.

She hauled Lydia out of the passenger seat of a Ford Tundra as if she weighed no more than a Chihuahua. Lydia didn't weigh much more than 100 pounds bare-assed naked, not that James had ever seen her completely unclothed. He had seen one boob at a time, small and pebbly like a juicy lemon. He was most familiar with the pink rose tattoo on her lower belly that pointed to the thorny stem of trouble at the crux of her legs which were now kicking and scissoring at Margaret while she shouted at the man in the driver's seat. "You! Simplot! Get your hands off my girl!"

Margaret shook Lydia like a bad, bad dog. "What are you thinking, you ninny-hammer! That asshole is old enough to be your dad!" Margaret was holding Lydia off with one arm to avoid her punches and she didn\'t seem to be aware of the big man in a cowboy hat who was stalking toward her with a baseball bat.

Now it was James turn to haul ass like an avenging angel.

The cowboy was old, thirty or more, with big broad shoulders and long legs and shit-kickers on his feet that made him look like he'd been punching cows for a lifetime. The expression on cowboy dude's face was seriously pissed off at *blow job interruptus*.

James ran behind him. He had a vague idea of jumping onto his back and wrestling the bat away.

Margaret beat James to the punch.

Margaret started whaling on the cowboy around the head with her big-ass Grandma purse. A satisfying meaty-sounded clonk brought the cow puncher to his knees like a sack of fertilizer.

Every time she hit him, the bag thonked: in his ribs, on his shoulders, the back of the neck, two more times in the kidneys. Thonk. Thonk. Thonk. This seemed odd, to James, because the bag on the outside looked felted and soft, like a sweater that had pilled in the wash. Long teeth bared, long gray curls flying, Margaret looked terrifying, if not insane. A middle-aged, heavily upholstered woman, bitch-slapping a man twenty years her junior with a purse the size of a suitcase. Not a sight James would forget the rest of his life.

"Quit! You crazy cunt!"

The cowboy was scuttling away crabwise to get away from her blows.

"Touch Lydia again and I'm calling the cops," Margaret shouted.

"You do that lady. At least they'll protect me from you," the man said, with some asperity. \"She\'s a grown woman! She can do what she wants."

\"Not while I\'m on duty, she can't!"

\"Who the hell are you?\"

"Margaret O'Leary, Ned Richard Simplot! Just you wait until I tell your mother what you've been up to. You pervert!"

By then, James stood shoulder to shoulder with Margaret. Until she leaned over and panted like she was about to throw up.

"Just get in the car!" Margaret pointed Lydia to the van. It was the new one with the Inner Horizons dove-and-peace logo plus a tagline James had never noticed. "Inner Horizons. Let us transport you to happiness with yourself.\"

The cowboy took in the sign and turned to Lydia. "You didn't tell me you were one-a them nut cases!"

"I may be nuts but you just got the shit beat out of you by a 50-year old woman!" retorted Lydia. "And I'm not nuts. I'm in treatment.\"

\"Treatment for what?\"

\"Gonorrhea,\" Margaret said. "James, the van."

On that note, Margaret gripped Lydia under the arm and marched her off, as if Lydia was a very small child who needed a lengthy time out.

"You chucklehead!" James could hear her lecturing. "Ned Simplot's a creep. head. And besides that, he's a John Bircher!"

James had no idea what a James Bircher was. Nor, based on Lydia's blank face, did she. They were both so respectful of the purse, they gave it a wide berth when they got back in the van. Lydia climbed all the way to the very back seat. James sat in front where his books were stacked. *Lord of the Flies* sat on top.

The cowboy shook his fist at them, then gimped back to his truck. At the pickup, he shouted, "Where the hell is my Louisville Slugger?"

No way that bat was a Louisville Slugger, thought James. Only pussies hit with metal bats. That piece of shit was a Cabela's brand special. Not that it wouldn't have hurt Margaret if the cowboy had belted her with it.

Both James and Margaret shrugged at the cowboy. Not my problem.

Margaret flopped into the front seat and huffed like she\'d gone a dozen rounds in a prizefight. "Jesus H. Christ. I'm out of shape.\"

When she wheeled out of the parking space past the cowboy's pick-up, a clang of metal rang out in the undercarriage, followed by an ominous bump. "Hope that didn't crack the block."

James watched the cowboy through the rear view mirror. He leaned over gingerly and pick up the flattened bat. It was too far away to see the man's expression but something about the way he shook the bat at them reminded James of a kidnapper with a crowbar he'd seen on TV.

"Stay away from him," Margaret was laying into Lydia. "He's a piss-pot of trouble."

Her fluffy bag lay slumped in the seat well like a well-worn, wouldn't-hurt-a-flea sweater. "What the heck is in that thing?" James was seeing the cowboy crumple to his knees with one blow.

"A pipe wrench." Margaret said.

"You're kidding."

"There's a leaky faucet in the girl's bathroom." Margaret shrugged. "I need to fix it."

James peered deep in the bag and caught the glint of a a chrome wrench about the size of a violin.

"Are you going to report me?" Lydia called from Barfland in the far back.

"I'd rather make you fix the damn faucet," Margaret answered. "I'm too worn out to fill out all the paper work."

They rode in silence back to Healing House. James had sense enough to keep his mouth shut; so did Lydia. James even offered to carry Margaret's purse into the house. It must have weighed at least twenty pounds.

\#
