---
uid: 01KAGWJPQ4NSGHFY9A9NBZCCJT
project: you-da-hoe
source_file: 42. James reveals secret to Rachel.docx
converted_date: '2025-11-24T12:20:22.910992'
wordcount: 2095
version: 1
---

\<\$W\>

AT VICTORY LANES, THE SCOREBOARD READ: RACHEL: 42, JAMES: 185.

Crash of pins made constant thunder. The buzz and rumble of a reset button. Ball after ball thundered out of Rachel's hands onto buttery smooth wood and galloped into the gutter with an embarrassing bang and whoosh.

James said, \"You almost had it. Next time, try not to release the ball at the end of your arc.\"

Rachel, who was bad at snowboarding, terrible at board games, a danger to herself and others with a pool cue, continued her athletic shame at Thursday night bowling league.

\"I thought we are supposed to be here for R&R," she said. \"This is torture.\"

James had just stepped up to the bowling lane as gracefully as a ballet dancer. He pirouetted on burgundy and gray lace-up shoes that should have made him look like a dweeb but instead, made him look so gorgeous and unattainable she wanted to cry.

\"You\'re trying too hard,\" he said after the scoreboard lit up with another strike. James: 195 up in red and yellow lights. \"Loosen up." Then as if he intuited she couldn't take any more shame, he said, "Want a Coke? I\'m thirsty.\"

They gave up their lane to Reza and Lydia who were surprisingly competitive. Lydia looked like a '50s rock-a-billy chick with her curly short hair pulled away from her face by a wide red headband. She wore a vintage black bowling shirt that said Detroit Diesel on the back and \"Andy\" in red embroidery over her boob.

\"Nice outfit,\" Rachel said.

Reza, wearing one of James's UC-San Diego tee shirts and blue jeans, said, \"Thanks,\" and then arced a marbleized ball down the lane for a strike.

\"Go fuck yourself,\" James said to Reza. "What?" he said when Rachel chastised him with her eyes. "He wore my shirt without asking!"

In the Burger Shoppe, James spent his entire allowance on a cheeseburger, an orange Nehi with fries and got fifty cents in change. Idaho.

Rachel shook her head at the blue-haired grandma who was apparently both waitress and cook. \"I already ate.\"

\"So did I,\" James said. \"That was two hours ago.\"

She laughed. \"I\'m a girl. Not a bottomless pit.\"

While they waited for the food in a booth next to the pin-ball machine, James took all the sugar packets out and stacked them up. He balanced a glass salt shaker on top of the packets, then added the pepper shaker to the pile and the whole thing toppled over. Pepper sprayed the table and Rachel sneezed.

\"Sorry,\" he said. \"I wasn\'t trying to kill you.\"

\"Finally something you\'re not good at!"

"Au contraire. Stacking sugar packets is an art. It takes hours of practice.\"

\"Have you been practicing your bowling?\"

\"No.\"

\"I didn\'t think so. And snowboarding? You were good at that too. You said it was your first time.\"

\"There\'s not a lot of snow in Malibu." James fixed her with smoke-blue eyes. "So, it was your first time, too. You should cut yourself some slack.\"

\"You were even good at salsa dancing. Doesn\'t it get old being great at everything?\"

James set to restacking the sugar packets in alternating horizontal and vertical directions."You just don\'t know me. Everybody knows I\'m a fuck up.\"

They'd been exchanging smart-ass quips all night and Rachel was sick of it. She folded her hands on the formica table top and waited. \"Tell me,\" she said. \"I want to know.\"

He looked around for the waitress. \"This isn\'t exactly fast food.\"

\"Why do you always do that?\"

\"What?\"

\"Change the subject.\"

\"I didn\'t. I just...\" He stopped, nonplussed.

\"What makes you a fuck-up? That\'s not what I see.\"

\"Well, you're locked up in a psychiatric treatment facility so you\'re not exactly unbiased.\"

She shrugged. \"I like you."

\"Want a bite?\" James caught Rachel eying his French fires with a look of longing. \"Why didn\'t you order something if you\'re hungry?\"

\"It\'s not that easy to admit it when you want something," she said. "Especially if it's always going to be taken away."

\"IT\'S NOT THAT EASY TO ADMIT IT WHEN YOU WANT SOMETHING," RACHEL SAID. "Especially if it's always going to be taken away." Wasn\'t that the truth? James wanted so much, especially in the middle of the night, to stop waking up with his heart pounding and wanting to scream. He didn't want to ever again see blood much less smell its wet penny reek.

He cut his burger in half and slid it over onto the french fry plate. Then he swallowed his half -burger in about three bites while she was still elegantly cutting hers into bite-size bits that she speared with a fork. She ate her fries with a fork, too, one at a time. Her manners were so controlled, so elegant, in contrast to her graceless lunges and ball drops on the bowling lanes. Same story on the ski slope where she careened and fell and slid down the hillon her butt, one foot dragging the snowboard like an anchor. She was tall and gangly, built like him, he realized, but she seemed not quite in command of her limbs. He remembered feeling the same way when he was 13, the year he shot up five inches and felt like his body had taken off without him.

\"What are you looking at?\" she asked.

\"You,\" he said. It was true. It was hard to not look at her and want to hold her hand.

> \"So tell me why you\'re a fuck up.\"

The terror and helplessness of holding Rachel while she was kicking and jerking during her fit was uppermost in James' thoughts. How he had wanted to help her by stopping her involuntary and embarrassing loss of control. He willed her to come back to consciousness when her eyes righted in her skull and her feet stopped drumming.

\"I killed a girl,\" he said softly.

\"How?\"

\"I was driving. We were drunk and stoned. I went off the road in Topanga Canyon by my house and we rolled.\"

\"Is that how you hurt your shoulder?\"

He nodded, feeling the ghost of the ache that was like a reminder that he couldn\'t ignore.

\"She died in the crash?\"

Why did it feel like he was flaying himself alive? His nerves felt raw and exposed, yet he sat forward and kept talking. She\'d exposed herself to him in all her ugliness and at her most vulnerable. It only seemed fair.

\"I woke up and got out of the car and left her to walk home. She bled to death.\"

\"Did you know she was hurt?\"

\"Oh yeah,\" he said. \"There was blood all over.\" Who would have thought so much blood in her? Macbeth and the shame those words inspired in him the first time he read them came back to him like a wave of nausea.

\"Was she close to you?\"

\"Right next to me in the passenger seat of the Corvette that flew apart like a cardboard car in the crash.\"

Rachel shook her head. "I mean, did you know her well?"

James shook his head. \"She asked me for a ride home. I didn\'t even know her name until after." After, meaning when the cop who interviewed him told him he was being charged with manslaughter and reckless driving and said her name was Charlotte Shantz and he misheard him and thought it was just his luck to kill a girl named Chance.

He realized belatedly that Rachel had reached across the table. She was gripping one of his hands with both of her hands, covering the top and the bottom of his fingers like a protective shell. \"I know,\" she said. \"I know.\"

Her low voice. The warmth of her fingers. The smell of French fry grease and the fog of bar smoke and the intermittent buzz of the reset button. What an odd place to get forgiveness but James would take it.

"It hurts,\" he said.

\"I know,\" she said.

It had been months and months of therapy sessions and Group Gropes and calls with one or the other of his bewildered and frightened parents and he\'d never been able to talk about that night until he told Rachel about the blood he\'d wiped on the cheat grass to get it off his hands. The way the girl -- a year-and-a-half later and he was still unable to refer to her by name which he knew from the newspaper to be Charlotte \-- Charlotte had been breathing high and wheezy in her chest. He\'d woken after the crash in blinding pain and tried to rouse her but she\'d been so far away, all she could do was groan. He\'d had terrible vertigo and it seemed like it took forever to clamber up the rock strewn slope that the Corvette had tumbled down end over end. Big chunks of fiberglass covered with brown paper backing dotted the hillside. A door panel. A chunk of hood. A trunk section still attached to a chrome fender caught in a clump of knapweed. It looked like the car had exploded and what he mistakenly had thought was steel and metal turned out to be nothing but flimsy paper.

When he looked back at the girl from far above her, he could see her still strapped in her seat by the seatbelt and there was barely any car around her. Just a frame and chassis supported by white-wheeled tires and a dashboard. She must have hit her head. Blood was everywhere.

He told Rachel about how he didn't remember getting home, that some good Samaritan gave him a ride and dropped him at the security gate of his parent\'s house. He couldn\'t remember the code to key it in and instead, leaned on the buzzer and told Lupe the maid to come. His mother drove her car down the long drive in her night gown and she took one look at his injuries, and drove him straight to the emergency room. He remembered her standing in a blue lamb-printed nightie talking to the ER doc while he lay on a gurney. After that it was all a blur.

Months later, he learned from reading the newspaper that the girl was probably breathing her last breaths, the wind riffling her henna-red hair, as he half crawled, half stumbled up the hill and walked two miles down the road until a good Samaritan gave him a ride.

Back in the diner, he was staring at Rachel's catsup on the plate. Seeing a featureless face bathed in red. Jesus. How Rachel could even look at him in his naked ugliness, he didn\'t understand.

"I know," she squeezed his hand during this recitation, her warm fingers reassuring him and keeping him talking till all the shame was out on the table. "I know."

Rachel had revealed her own self at its ugliest in her epileptic fit--- when some alien spirit commandeered her body and transformed it into a being nobody recognized----and he recognized a kindred spirit. His body \-- the one he was so used to depending on for his balletic speed with the ball, his three-point sinkers from the corner or the inside \-- his own body had betrayed him at the crucial moment. It had taken him up the mesquite-strew slope, limping, his forearm pinched tight against his ribs as he walked and when he got home to his neurosurgeon mother who might have been able to do something, he never even mentioned the girl he should have saved.

Finally, after what seems like hours and hours of telling, when the flow of words falls off his tongue like rain, James will finally, finally exhaust all language and stop in exhaustion. Rachel doesn't take her eyes off his face.

"Tell Josh," Rachel says. "Then tell your parents."

"What's so important about telling?"

"You get the shit out and it stinks and once it's out, it loses its power to poison you. If it stays inside, it festers or ferments and it grows uglier and the stench grows and pretty soon --like over days and months and years -- it consumes you. You get to eighty or ninety, when you're supposed to have lived a good life, and there's nothing there but puss and shit and ugliness."

"How'd you get to be so smart?" James asks, after a long silence.

Rachel touches her face. Long fingers against a shapely dark mouth. "I'm not smart. Just observant."

"Who'd you observe?"

"Myself," she says.

"And now you."
