---
uid: 01KAGVY6XAMHX1RRGDS4JBSQ1X
project: you-da-hoe
source_file: 43. Lydia learns plumbing from Margaret after Jed.docx
converted_date: '2025-11-24T12:26:01.751309'
wordcount: 1104
version: 1
---

43\.

LYDIA THOUGHT THE COWBOY'S name was Ned not Jed.

She had been meeting up with him in the NICC parking lot for a couple months. She\'d walked by him in his pickup one day at Dunkin' Donuts and he'd given her a ride back to campus. He'd squawked a little about how much she wanted for a blow-job till she demonstrated a loss leader. She didn\'t know squat about him. There wasn\'t a lot of talking when someone was pressing his cowboy hat over her head to cover up what was going on in his lap.

It really surprised her when Margaret called him Jed. Jed? Like the guy on those stupid Beverly Hills Hillbillies reruns that the maids in Grosse Point liked to watch?

Lydia didn't mind giving blowjobs. She wasn\'t squeamish about the smells or the taste. The sense of power she had with someone\'s dick in her mouth was worth almost as much as the money. \$100 for ten minutes seemed like an OK trade when it meant she could buy a Sephora makeup palette or a pair of Lulu Lemon pants, plus feel someone shiver and tremble under her tongue.

Her therapist Rosa was always asking her what all the sex was about. \"What do you get out of it?\" was what Rosa said when Lydia got caught with Alex. \"I get money,\" which is what Jed handed over when she met him between classes for a quickie. If she was honest with herself, it wasn\'t about just the money. Sure! She had something men\-- and once, a woman---wanted. A straight forward business transaction. I do this. You give me that.

She had done it with him standing up in an alley, she did it in the boys bathroom when some other guy was peeing in the urinal, she did it in Jed\'s pickup, under cover of the table at Dunkin' Donuts, she did it in the alley behind the Student Union building, all because she liked how powerful she felt. Getting paid was a bonus when you could tap into someone\'s electrical outlet with a flick of a tongue. She never felt more in control than when she was either promising sex or delivering it. Men trembled. Men shook. They quivered and got goose bumps and groaned when she blew their brains out of the tiny slit at the tip of alternate head. That was the electricity she couldn\'t get enough of.

The problem was the minute it was over, the electricity turned off. Then she felt out of control and bereft.

Lydia scooted to the far back of the van, as far away from Margaret as she could get after the altercation with Jed. She expected to be yelled at or guilt-tripped or flogged by her tongue or something. So when the silence stretched out the length of the ride back to Healing House, she wondered when the lecture was going to start. The back window was iced over inside. It was like sitting in a freezer after being melted in the sauna of Margaret's fire and rage.

Margaret drove, chewing a piece of gum like she was trying to bite it into little pieces.

Jed had flipped Lydia off when Margaret towed her away from him. He seemed to have some weird idea that she should have defended him from Margaret and her lethal purse.

\"Hey Margaret,\" Lydia called out, moving out of frigid Barfland to get closer to the heater. \"Who called the doctor? Who called the Nurse? Who called the lady with the alligator purse?\"

\"What is *in* that thing?\" James asked. \"Rocks?\"

Margaret scrabbled around in the gap between the seats, driving one handed. First, she hauled out a lunch box with a Dilbert cartoon on the front from its black depths. Flipping open the latch, she said, \"Want some carrots?\" She offered them first to James and told him to pass them to Lydia. Then Margaret continued hunting deep in the purse's innards and after a minute, she made a cry of delight. \"There you are!\"

She held up a crescent wrench the size of a man\'s forearm. It must have weighed ten pounds and in Margaret's upraised arm, it look like a symbol of the Communist revolution.

"Damn! You could have killed somebody with that thing!" James said.

\"Why do you have a wrench in your purse?" asked Lydia.

Margaret acted like it was perfectly normal. \"There\'s a leak in the girl\'s bathroom. I have to to change the gasket.\"

\"Why don\'t you call the plumber?\" said Lydia.

\"It\'s just a gasket. Anybody can change one.\"

\"I can\'t,\" Lydia said.

\"You don\'t know enough to change a gasket or an o-ring? That\'s criminal. I\'ll show you after you tell your therapist what you were doing in Jed\'s pickup.\"

"Before or after I tell her you nearly killed him,\" Lydia said.

\"You wouldn\'t.\"

\"I would.\"

\"I definitely would," said James. "You\'re insane!"

\"The bastard deserved it!He was using Lydia." Margaret shot a dark look at Lydia. "Did you know he's old enough to be your dad?"

Ewwwww. Lydia had had no idea.

"That\'s sick," said James.

\"So is hitting him on the skull with a crescent wrench,\" Lydia observed. "Besides, what difference does it make how old he is? He likes me.\"

\"I can see he likes you. That\'s why he was making you give him head in broad daylight. Very romantic. Just because a guy wants something, you don\'t have to say yes.

It was impossible for Lydia to explain how she was the one using whoever she had sex with. Already, not half an hour after Margaret had hauled her out of Jed's pickup, she was feeling the emptiness, the power hungry itch that only one thing would scratch. It wasn\'t that she liked him --- she really had thought his name was Ned\-- but she loved the way she could control him. It wasn\'t about her orgasm, not that she didn\'t like them. It was about making him completely helpless under her index finger and her tongue.

Margaret waggled a finger at both of them \"You two. What am I going to do with you?\"

\"Nothing?\" James said in the manner of innocent choirboy.

\"Don\'t ask, don\'t tell,\" Lydia said. "Our lips are sealed.\"

\"Your lips better be sealed, missy." She shot a warning look at Lydia. "If I see you with Jed Simplot again\-\--,\" she gave her purse a shake and the sound of metal clanked like a dumb bell.

\"Against my better judgment,\" Margaret said.

\"Forget the judgment,\" James advised.\" Go for your own self interest.\"

\#
