---
uid: 01KAGW0HFKBNV398WSFHTKH1T0
project: you-da-hoe
source_file: 45. Margaret is not in the mood.docx
converted_date: '2025-11-24T12:25:22.284183'
wordcount: 301
version: 1
---

45\.

LYDIA AND CHARLENE WERE ARGUING IN THE ENTRYWAY about why Lydia had to interview for community service hours. \"I shouldn\'t have to work! My family already pays through the nose to keep me here.\"

\"You\'re not working for money,\" Charlene said. \"It\'s about learning responsibility.\"

"Horse shit,\" Lydia said. \"If you\'re not getting paid, why work?\"

Margaret had to agree with the spoiled little rich girl. Work was about the money, especially money that paid for healthcare.

\"Put your mittens on,\" she said automatically to Lydia. \"It\'s cold out.\"

Lydia made a snotty face at Charlene. She drew a fur lined coat out of the closet and shrugged into it. She caught Margaret eyeing it and said \"It\'s mink. Want to cop a feel?\"

Margaret touched a hand to the dark silken fur, then leaned past her and plucked her old down coat off a hanger. Fur? Who needed fur when you could have a low deductible?

Omar, the new kid, bumped into Reza on purpose. Reza banged against the closet door and the cheap handle fell off. Margaret sighed. She'd remembered to put a pipe wrench in her purse to fix the leaky gasket. She added the cheap-ass handle to a to-do list that grew like beaver's teeth. You had to gnaw on it or it would eat you up.

Omar called shot gun and bolted towards the van. Reza beat him to it. There was nearly a fist fight until Margaret hollered, \"Would you all grow up!\" She fixed both boys with a glower. \"I\'m not in the mood.\"

Against company rules, Margaret turned up the CD player and let the sound system shake the car with the power of its bass. Macklemore. Put Your Hands Up. She bet the rap star could afford premium health insurance.

\#
