---
uid: 01KAGW6667D0RXBAY36H49X24G
project: you-da-hoe
source_file: 46. Lydia interviews at Povarello Center.docx
converted_date: '2025-11-24T12:23:45.162027'
wordcount: 2696
version: 1
---

46\.

LYDIA FINALLY PASSED THE 15-month month mark at Inner Horizons.

Theoretically you spent the first 3 months in Intensive which was like being on lock down twenty-four hours a day. They treated you like you were on an ankle wire and kept you trapped in an endless cycle of individual therapy, group therapy, Cognitive Behavior Therapy, Dialectical Behavior Therapy, Mindfulness Meditation, and Reflection Time when you were supposed to be thinking about your self without the diversion of other people, TV, video games, or even music.

Frankly, the Reflection Time was more than she could bear, which was why she tried to escape the 1^st^ time. Her reflections had led her to walk out the back door when Gretchen had her head in the oven (if there was a God, he'd light the gas stove and blow her to the high heaves). She rode shotgun on the Smith Brothers milk truck with the driver blissfully unaware she was freezing her ass off on his bumper. During his frequent delivery stops, she crouched down behind trees and bushes, and once, a mailbox in the shape of a cow, to avoid being spotted. Then she ran like hell and clambered back on the bumper when he took off.

She made it as far as E. Coeur d'Alene but she had the bad luck to be tailed by a state trooper who gave the Smith Brothers guy a ticket and drove her back to the program. They'd already issued an APB. It all added up to a month at Stabilization, and another three months in Intensive.

At the six months mark, they had finally loosened the leash and let her sign up at North Idaho Community College for classes. If you proved you could go to class without running and then show up to class on time and do the asinine homework assignments, the next \"privilege\" you earned was community service at your choice of "approved" non-profits.

She wasn't that motivated to get an interview until she met Lorenzo. Given a choice between bagging groceries at the Pend O\'reille Food Bank or cleaning toilets at the Povarello homeless center, she was amused to find herself sitting in the threadbare lobby of the Povarello Center awaiting the Head of Housekeeping. She hadn\'t seen Lorenzo for almost a week. He was a no-show at the Student Union. No show in Business Math, which was only tolerable because she sat behind him and could spy on his careful, square-lettered notes.

She hoped Caritas Ziemkowski, Head of Housekeeping, wasn\'t a female. She could wrap any man around her finger but it wasn\'t so easy, when they were women as street smart as Margaret. Pray for something with a dick, she was thinking, as she inspected the grisly cross with a dead body hanging under the Povarello sign in the lobby. \"In service to others.\" If this was what religion expected of you, forget it.

Oh holy crap.

She rose, uncertain whether to shake hands or kneel down to an ancient and creaky looking priest. Be careful what you wish for. He was the real meal deal: clad in a white collar and a black, long cassock belted with rope. A bunch of beads below his waist looked like he was hung with carved nutmegs. \"Brother Ziemkowski, my dear,\" said the priest---or was he a monk?\--extending a liver-spotted, bird-claw hand.

Lydia 's religious training was an inch thick and a thousand miles wide. She barely knew how to address a rabbi, much less a priest, so she settled for \"Hi there. I'm Lydia Bronfmann. From Inner Horizons.\"

\"You\'re Lydia? From Inner Horizons? You're here about the receptionist job?\"

\"No fa-- brother,\" she amended. \" I\'m here about the cleaning position.\"

\"On your knees\" he said. \" At least that\'s how it's typically done.\"

It took her a heartbeat to realize the little white haired elfin sprite was joking. He had no wrinkles -- none. Yet he could have been eighty, hell, ninety, even. He looked eye-to-eye with Lydia, who was five feet in her stockings.

\"You don\'t look much bigger than the mop,\" the odd little monk said.

Look who's talking she wanted to say.

"You\'d be surprised what I can do if I put my mind to it.\"

"Good," he said. "A mind of your own."

He asked a few general questions about her -- was she going to school? Affirmative. What was she taking? Business Math and English. Delightful!

Then Brother Boniface gave her the grand tour of the aging and hard worn facility. It looked to her like a pitched battle had been fought here daily. Scuffed walls. Linoleum so old, it was lifting away from the wall and cracked in places. Ancient plumbing wheezed and clanked like a million dwarves were at work in the basement as they walked the dim wax-smelling halls.

Finally, he led her up a half flight of stairs to a janitorial closet and said, \"The second floor hall could use a scrub. Mind if we test you out today?\"

Lydia knew what a mop was, of course. She'd seen the phalanx of house cleaners and maids and gardeners and cooks at work at their duties in the 26-room art deco mansion she'd lived in off-and-on with her grandmother and grandfather in Grosse Point. Dutifully, she took the mop by the business end, eyeing the grey ropy clump that looked like a Medusa\'s head of snakes.

"Call me Brother B -- not father!" he said. "I\'m a Dominican friar. Very different from a priest! And Brother B. Is simpler." He didn't say simpler for whom, just sent her to an ancient sink with deep rust stains to fill a bucket with water and detergent.

\"Have at it, my dear,\" Brother B beamed. \"I\'ll be back to check on you in an hour.\"

She left a trail of soapy water behind her as she lugged the heavy pail down a long hallway flanked by narrow cells. Most of the doors were open. Narrow steel beds. Gray-striped mattress ticking. One flattened pillow the thickness of a comic book to a room.

It took her a while to figure out that she had to keep wringing out the mop or she was just pushing the dirt around.

She wondered where Lorenzo lived. Did he have an assigned room or did he have to move in and out on some institutional schedule? She\'d never thought about being homeless. If dirty street people stretched their hands out, she looked away and kept her head down on her way into Saks or Nieman Marcus. \"Spare some change,\" she had heard them call but she never bothered to spare a look.

She flung the droopy mop back and forth on the wood and wondered why Brother Boniface hadn't asked much about her. When he wanted to know where she hailed from, Grosse Point seemed to stump him, but when she said Detroit, that seemed to snag his attention. \"Home of Motown!\" he beamed, which seemed pretty funny coming from a guy dressed in a brown sack tied with a rope.

He did ask her why she wanted to work at the Povarello Center instead of the Couer D'Alene Food Bank. The Povarello Center was two miles away from NICC. A long walk in the cold. The real reason was because she wanted to be where Lorenzo was and where James, who was doing his community service at the food bank, wasn't. Luckily she remembered the prayer she'd read in the lobby and paraphrased the phrase that got stuck in her head. \" Better to console than be consoled\" came out as \" Better to mop than be mopped,\" she said and to her surprise,Brother B. clapped his boney hands and laughed. He sounded like the clatter of dry leaves but his delight had been surprisingly sweet.

She was sweating up a storm by the time she worked her way almost the whole way down the hall, doggedly throwing the mop out in front of her wringing it with both hands. She had no idea how much time had gone by when she heard the gentle slap of sandals and Brother B called out to her. \"Look at you! You're making the old place sparkle.\"

It would have taken a load of dynamite to break the layers of grime off, much less make it gleam. Still, Brother B\'s praise made her inordinately proud of her progress.

He lugged the dirty water back to the sink for her, even though she tried to wrestle the bucket from him. The old bird was surprisingly wiry and tenacious. She was about to ask him if he knew Lorenzo, when the he said, \"Come. You can help me with an errand of mercy.\"

He took her down the backstairs to an industrial size kitchen. \"One of our clients is sick with the flu," he told her as he boiled water for tea and cut up cheese and bread and sliced several apples. He stopped, as if concerned. \"You won\'t catch it will you?\"

\"I never get sick."

Brother B looked like he\'d blow over in a strong breeze so she said, "Maybe you should let me deliver the food." She was thinking about old people having poor autoimmune systems. Lydia\'s grandmother, and the other old biddies in her Bridge group, were always wearing masks because one of the ladies was always getting sick.

\"Oh no dear,\" he said. \" We have to go up to the men-only floor. I\'ll have to be your escort.\"

Lydia carried the tray, the tea pot clinking as she climbed the stairs. Her legs felt like jelly by the time they climbed four flights while Floor Brother B. Barely had a hitch in his breath.

Halfway down the silent hall, he rapped his knuckles on a closed door. A raspy voice said something indistinguishable that Brother B. seemed to take as assent. He swung the door open and Lydia was amazed to see Lorenzo pale and sweating in the bed covers.

\"Come in, dear. Put the tray on the desk,\" motioned Brother B.

Lorenzo looked like shit. He hadn\'t shaved. A soft rusty fuzz covered his lower face and his red curls sproinged out every direction. He was staring at her like she'd grown another head. \"Lydia!\" he croaked. \"You\'re not supposed to be up here.\"

She glanced at Brother B. who was busy whipping a thermometer out of its wrapper. \"You two know each other?\" he asked.

A mass of brown freckles covered Lorenzo's chest and shoulders and his skin was so pasty white his freckles stood out like peppercorns on the large expanse of skin. Lydia felt suddenly shy without knowing why.

\"Lydia\'s our new janitorial assistant,\" Brother B told Lorenzo. \"Did you know she\'s a maestro with a mop?"

This was patently ridiculous but apparently Lorenzo was used to Brother B\'s humor. He said, \"Takes a mop master to know a mop maestro.\"

Lydia poured out tea in a chipped white mug and she automatically put in three packets of sugar with the milk. \"What\'s wrong with you? I was getting worried."

\"It\'s just the flu. A mean one," Lorenzo said.

\"I haven\'t seen you since last Friday,\" she said.

"You were worried? About me?\" Her admission seemed to flummox him. He had to speak around the thermometer Brother B. had stuck in his mouth like a lollipop.

Brother B peered at the mercury and then held it out to Lydia, saying, \"Can you read this? I misplaced my glasses.\" Lydia found the mark on the mercury without difficulty but frowned at what she saw. \"One hundred and three. Is that right?\"

Instinctively, she put her hand on Lorenzo\'s large forehead and felt heat radiating off him in waves. A memory of being very sick with a sore throat transported her to her old bedroom in New York when her mom and dad were still married. She felt a big cool hand on her head. Worried eyes in a dim and faraway face. Dad? Did he take care of me when I was sick? There was nothing else to the memory. Just a hand and a sense of concern. \"You\'re burning up," she said.

Brother B said, \"It\'s time to call Dr. George, Lorenzo. Your fever is too high."

"I'm fine, Brother. Just give me a day to recover.\"

\"It might be strep throat." Brother B was busy feeling under Lorenzo\'s jaw below his ears. \"Your lymph nodes are swollen.\"

\"I can\'t pay, Brother B. Don\'t call him.\"

"The Center will take care of Dr. George. You know he doesn\'t charge us like his regular patients.\"

Lydia watched Lorenzo take a sip of tea and grimace when the hot tea slid over his infected throat. A flash of pain darkened his eyes.

\"My mom will pay for the doctor. She can afford it," Lydia said. She didn\'t know how to tell Lorenzo or Brother B. that the Bronfman whiskey fortune could buy any number of hospitals plus the pharmaceutical companies that supplied them.

\"Absolutely not!\" The strain on Lorenzo's larynx sent him into a paroxysm of coughing.

\"My name is Lydia Heinz Bronfmann. You know how you were eating French fries the other day and pounding the Heinz bottle and swearing at it? That\'s the Heinz I\'m talking about. We also own Seagrams.\"

"You\'re hired,\" said Brother B. \"We need a new roof.\"

Lorenzo closed his eyes tightly and she realized he was trying to keep tears from squeezing out. \"I pay my own way," he said.

\"And how are you going to do that flat on your back, you big lug?\"

Lydia\'s mom, the serial marrier was always saying that men were idiots. If Brother B. was maybe the exception, Lorenzo was proving the rule.

\"Do you even have a job?\" she asked.

Lorenzo\'s eyes swept off to the window. \"Probably not now," he muttered.

\"So I\'ve got money and you don\'t. Who cares.\"

\"I\'m not your responsibility.\"

\"A family is supposed to be responsible for you. Yours is a piece of shit.\" For maybe the 1^st^ time in Lydia\'s life, it occurred to her that by Lorenzo\'s shitty yardstick, her own family wasn't that bad. So her mom got married a lot but Grandma and Grandpa Bronfman were in her corner. If she needed something, it was always there. Nobody would throw her out on her own to fend for herself, even with all the shit she pulled.

Lorenzo\'s voice was slow and stubborn. \"You\'re not my family.\"

\"I\'m a friend, and that trumps a fucked up family any day." She was imagining the scene at the bus stop when Lorenzo\'s stepfather handed him \$100 and turned his back on him at the bus stop without a backward glance. It made her mad just thinking about it. There was a first for everything. Didn\'t the Bronfmann Corporation employ a whole floor of corporate lawyers at its headquarters in Detroit? Wouldn\'t at least one of them have time to investigate a polygamist in Hilldale, Utah? Grandpa Ben wasn\'t big on hugs and compliments but he was hella-good at suing people. That's what Mom always said.

It took about ten minutes of Brother B and Lydia's tag-team to railroad Lorenzo into a visit from Dr. George. Then Brother B walked Lydia down the stairs to the front door. \"Will M-W-F, 2-6, work with your classes?\" he said, beaming. \"Good interview. One of my best!"

"Looking forward to it, Brother."

Lydia kicked her way through 3 or 4 inches of snow that had fallen while she was in the Povarello Center. The sound of car traffic was hushed, pillowed by the softly falling snowflakes. The street lamps lit golden arcs in the dimness and Lydia walked through golden light feeling the slightly pleasurable ache of hard work between her shoulders. \"Good things come to those who wait.\" It was an ad slogan from the family business in the '80s. She\'d seen it once on an office wall when she went to visit Grandpa Ira. It was a good one. Maybe she should tell him they should bring it back.

\#
