---
uid: 01KAGWNWYVB1VE8QJ2SSN72HWH
project: you-da-hoe
source_file: 47. Margaret meets US Banker in Costco.docx
converted_date: '2025-11-24T12:19:30.225029'
wordcount: 1336
version: 1
---

47\.

ON HER WAY IN TO COSTCO, MARGARET EYED THE CARTS that people had abandoned in the parking lot. It took only an extra minute to roll your cart to the return zone but people were so lazy or just didn\'t give a damn and nobody did it. Everybody do your part and the parking lot will be clear. That was Margaret\'s motto but apparently she was the only one who practiced what she preached.

A woman next to her was unloading cases of Coke, a hundred pound bag bag of dog food, and an enormous stuffed kangaroo with its little paws up like it was ready to box someone. Margaret had always wondered who bought those things. Her answer was a stylish grandma in leopard printed spandex, a muffin top, and a pair of knee-high fur boots.

Margaret was about to offer to take her cart back, when she decided to wait and see whether the woman would restore her faith in humanity.

Nope. The woman shoved the cart to the front of her saintly Prius and drove off, avoiding the lethal stare Margaret laid on her as she passed. If she could have, she would have issued her a Spandex violation!

It took nearly an hour of treading down every Costco aisle like a rat looking for the cheese for Margaret to finish Gretchen's shopping list. Margaret surveyed the checkout lanes for one that was less than ten people deep. She chose one that had only five people but since every single one of them had industrial flatbed carts like they were shopping for the flood, it didn't save her any time.

Of course, her cart load wasn\'t much better. She was shopping for 30 after all. A case of Maalox? Margaret perused the shopping list and wondered who the case of Maalox was for. She\'d have to ask Gretchen when she got back. It wasn\'t Hazey. That man never worried a whit even when all hell was breaking loose.

The next item, though, was definitely Hazey\'s. A case of laxatives. The man often disappeared in the bathroom for hours. Apparently, his drug use had his whole system so stopped up. Gretchen had descended to lurking outside the john to get the good doctor to sign off on purchase orders for groceries and office supplies. Margaret didn\'t lurk. She just shoved papers under the door and she picked them up from the bathroom counter later. She'd read about managing upward. She had learned to manage when he was sitting down.

A familiar voice called out to her. \"Margie? Margie Centerguard, is that you?\"

Centerguard was Margaret's maiden name. She hadn\'t used it since high school.

\"Oh my word. Betsy Vance!\"

Betsy looked a hell of a lot better preserved than Margaret did. She stood in front of Margaret in the line with a small cart of groceries. Her hair was streaked with a professional mix of blond and brown and ash and she was wearing a professional taupe pant suit with a silk blouse and pricey burgundy heels heels. Margaret wore her usual blouson top to cover her wide-load hips, stretch slacks (same reason) and Nikes to be nice to her falling arches. Gravity. Not her friend.

Betsy had been one of her pals in high school, before Hank and hormones took over. They'd lost touch when Margaret got pregnant and Betsy, a straight A student, went off to Gonzaga for college. Margaret heard though the grape-vine she\'d gotten a degree in accounting. \"What are you up to? It\'s been a coon's age.\"

\"I just had my coon's wrinkles worked on," Betsy said. \"How do you like my face lift?\"

"You? A face lift? If I won the lottery, I'd go for a butt lift!" Margaret said. "How much does it cost to have it removed?"

Betsy, who had always been a sweet person, tsk-tsked. "You look fine, Margie. Besides, you got two kids out of the deal. All I've got is my eyelids stapled to the top of my head."

Both women laughed. Margaret remembered that Betsy had gotten divorced after marrying her college boy friend. It wasn't like eligible men---hell, even men with health care---were thick on the ground in Coeur D'Alene. Small town living had its advantages but marriage after divorce wasn't one of them.

Betsy\'s face looked different for sure. Good different. Fresh and rested different, while Margaret's face looked like she'd been run over by a Mack Truck. Margaret said truthfully, \"You look spectacular.\"

\"Oh honey, you were always the nicest girl in high school.\" Betsy hugged her and Margaret got a whiff of hairspray and expensive perfume. \"What are you doing with yourself?\" Betsy was eyeing the case of laxative on top of Margaret\'s overloaded cart.

\"I\'m housekeeping for Inner Horizons. It's the rehab place for troubled kids North of town."

\"That makes sense. You were always trying to rescue people.\"

I was? Margaret could hardly imagine her high school self before husband and kids and aging parents and Hank's back problems. It was like imagining the dinosaur age. Come and gone.

"I just met your boss--Dr. Hazey?--he came into the bank the other day.\"

It turned out that Betsy, the branch manager at Wells Fargo's Coeur D'Alene branch, had just approved a loan for Dr. Hazey. Very interesting.

Sounds like business is great,\" Betsy said.

\"Nuts R Us,\" Margaret said. "The world never runs out of crazy kids.\"

\"Doctor Hazey seems like a ball of energy,\" Betsy said.

So Betsy had met him on a load of uppers. When Margaret had gone into his office to get the purchase order signed, his eye lids drooped and he seemed to be channelling Buddha. So old Hazey was in getting a new loan. What for? She was thinking.

The clerk was handing Betsy's Costco card card. Betsy squeezed Margaret\'s hand kindly before she left with her bag of frozen peas, saying, \"Let\'s have coffee and catch up.\" She handed her a business card and Margaret read Betsy Vance, Branch Manager, with a silent whistle. \"You bet,\" Margaret said. \"I\'d love that.\"

\"Good luck on the expansion,\" Betsy said.

What expansion?

Dr. Hazey had gotten a loan to *expand* the business? They were packed to the gills and Gretchen had said a new kid was expected at the end of the week. Margaret wasn\'t sure where they going to put her. In the rafters?

Well, that was good news. If Hazey expanded Inner Horizons with a new facility, he\'d have to increase her hours, wouldn\'t he? He\'d need somebody to run the new house or maybe he\'d move Gretchen to the new place (hallelujah!) and give Healing House to Margaret to manage? Was it a pipe dream?

By the time Margaret loaded up the van and was returning her grocery cart to the cart corral, she had her new job--and commensurate benefits and salary all figured out. The man next to her in a Subaru finished unloading his car about the same time she did.

She decided to try out her new managerial skills on him. \"I sure hate people who don\'t return their carts, don\'t you?\" She beams her highest wattage beam.

He had already moved the cart to the front of his car so he wouldn\'t back into it.

She smiled a little more beatifically and he succumbed to the power of positive suggestion. He trundled off with the cart and a guilty smile.

\"You\'re a good cart citizen. " She waited for him to come back and waved him forward so he could back out first as his just reward.

You just needed to give people a little push to get them moving in the right direction, she thought.

Maybe she\'d send her idea for parking lot signs to the President of Costco. \"Be a good cart citizen.\" It had a nice ring to it.

Now all she had to do was figure out how to shove Hazey and his drug cart in the right direction.

\#
