---
uid: 01KAGWDGCZKNEA0X159MMHFH9R
project: you-da-hoe
source_file: 48.Rusty orders container.docx
converted_date: '2025-11-24T12:21:46.822219'
wordcount: 801
version: 1
---

48\.

RUSTY SLAMMED A FIST ON THE WHEEL. He\'d driven like a bat out of hell back to the dump so he could get his rifle, but by the time he got back, all the nuts were back in the nut house. The asshole with the blanket around *his* girl was nowhere to put a site on him. All he could see was the top of the asshole\'s head flying apart like a melon when a hollow point hit him between the eyes.

Coupla days later he was still mad. Get even mad. He didn't have to shoot the asshole if he just took the girl and put her somewhere away from the asshole and his wandering hands.

Ned Simplot had been on him for months to buy the used container from the potato fields so's he could store parts and tools insteada letting them rust in the his old man's leaky shed. Ned kept telling him that somebody was going to break in and steal them. "Whyn't you use your brain insteada your dick? Buy something you can padlock."

Padlock. Key. He\'d been on his way to a garage sale when a story came over the radio about how they were using containers for people to live in in Africa. That was what gave him the idea. He could fix up the potato container. Insulate it and make it livable for the girl. He already had the key. Now all he had to do was lock her in it.

He asked around for Simplot and like magic, a Sealand container was now backing into a spot he\'d cleared between the trailer and the Plymouth and Jimmie he used for spare parts. He had them drop the box next to the trailer he slept in so he could keep an eye on it. It would be easy to go back and forth. When he had a mind to, he could watch the girl through the peep holes he was planning to drill. He'd even insulate the little door he'd use to slide open so it didn't let the heat out.

He\'d already bought a space heater. As soon as they unhooked the tractor, he\'d run a live wire from the trailer for lights and heat. Maybe he\'d even let her have a microwave so she could heat stuff up. It was fun to think of all the things he was going to do for her. He made notes on the back of a bill. Blankets. Should he do a shopping run at the Povarello Bargain Basement? By the time people took bedspreads or quilts to the dump, they were pretty far gone. Back when his mom had been around, he remembered having sheets on the bed but then again, that was so long ago, maybe he'd just seen them on TV. He crossed sheets off the list. Penciled in *Sleping Bag*.

Wisht he\'d thought of setting up a container a lot earlier. Then he\'d coulda looked through the crap people threw out for what was needed to fix it up. He\'d put by some old dishes and silverware people had tossed. After the fire, he\'d hauled home the smoky mattress and box springs Margaret O'Leary said he could take.

The smoke from the fire smelled strong every time he opened the container. The wet and dark smell reminded him of the night of the fire when his plans to impress the bitch had gone wrong. The old man beat him once with a dried out switch instead of the green willow switches he liked. The old wood broke over Rusty's back and the old man was so mad, he hollered, "You knothead! Even wood ain't strong enough to teach you a lesson." He couldn't even look at a belt after that. Helga, when she lived to home, was always saying, "Whyn't you take care of yourself? Pull your pants up," or "Nobody wantsa look at your crack." The old man died in his bed so Rusty put a match to him and his every belt and burned the memory of the burning switches to ash. Every time he smelled smoke, he thought of the S.O.B.

Ned Simplot waved from the cab of his old man's K-whopper. He poked his head out the window. Said, "Lemme know when you want us to haul you some gravel. Damn pot holes are big enough to fall into." Nothing was ever good enough for Ned, not even the silver spoon that stuck out of his ass.

Fuck you and the horse you rode in on, Rusty told himself. Who gives a rat's tiny turd about taking care of people\'s cars when they take trash from town to the shitty ass dump? The place was a dump. What'd they expect? The fucking road to Cabela's?

\#
