---
uid: 01KAGW1H9BG9NMYDA32DCPGA4M
project: you-da-hoe
source_file: 49. OG buried by snow.docx
converted_date: '2025-11-24T12:25:03.976941'
wordcount: 2118
version: 1
---

49\.

IT TOOK OLD GIRL ABOUT SIX MONTHS to figure out that she was stuck in a Catch 22 for crazy kids. If you acted nuts---say you took the Etsy route and threw your breakfast bowl of Cheerios at Christian when he wouldn't pass the sugar or you smashed the mirror in the bathroom with your fist like Dani because you didn't like what you saw or you climbed on top of your therapist's desk and screamed to be let out as Old Girl had at the end of her first year, they just sent you backwards to re-experience Inner Horizons labyrinthine levels of Intensive or Transition or Stabilization or Aftercare.

If you acted normal, didn't engage, didn't misbehave, did all your chores, worked at being pleasant, turned in your DBT worksheets and did your homework on time, participated cheerfully in bowling and snowboarding and salsa dancing and trail running and whatever stupid R&R hike they tormented you with, you were treated as equally nuts.

"Faking it."

"Passing."

"Severely depressed.

"Obviously suicidal."

If she hadn't been suicidal when she came in to the Program, she certainly should have been by now.

No one got out on their own volition. You were stuck in Idaho like flies in Superglue, she thought. There was no incentive to the jailers for people to get well. Your parents---or in her case, her hard working, impoverished aunt and uncle---kept forking out the exorbitant fees and Dr. Hazey bought another Mercedes that he parked on the front curb so you knew that your fees had paid for it. The status quo staggered on. If she'd burned the money in a bonfire in front of her family, at least she could have gotten warm.

Old Girl was thinking these depressing thoughts when she and ten other residents of Healing House stood shivering in front of a depressing fire out in the middle of a silent and depressing wilderness. Josh, today's hike leader, had resorted to pouring a gallon of lighter fluid on the wet wood to get it to burn. After an initial whoosh of flame, the logs smoldered and spit and creaked, raising more smoke than fire.

They had started the hike to Pulaski Tunnel dry and warm, in relatively good spirits. Now, three hours later, they were sopping wet and freezing. They'd trooped up a mountain, breaking through crusted-over snow and slogged up to a flat meadow where Josh demonstrated how to build a snow cave. Survival time!

He'd divided the group into teams of three and he gave them a two-hour deadline to make their own caves. Old Girl got stuck with Reza who weighed about 95 pounds and couldn't keep his attention on a task if you tied him to the Ponderosa pine they built their cave next to. James was originally assigned to their team, but he convinced Josh that it was cruel and unusual punishment to put James be on the same team as the roommate who drove him crazy. So that left Old Girl and Estie to build a snow cave while Reza orbited around it driving them insane.

It was Esty's first weekend back from Stable after she'd stabbed Reza which in any other world would have made her an odd choice to partner with Reza. But since it was Inner Horizons and Easy was so pumped with whatever downers they were using to control her, that was that. On the four mile hike, she lumped along in her men's size 10 packs and size 22 red snow pants in sullen silence.

When the sky started to drizzle and spit, old Girl knew why death in the next minute seemed much more appealing. If somebody put her in charge, she'd push Etsy over a cliff face to put her out of her angry misery, then follow her over leaping with both feet into the chasm in a New York minute.

Unfortunately, all she was given were Idaho minutes, a euphemism for eternity, while they spent the next two hours digging deep, wet snow and forming it into blocks. She and everybody else sweated up a storm shoveling snow and forming blocks and before ten minutes had passed, they'd all stripped down to their tee-shirts and snow pants. Sans hats and gloves and jackets, they clawed and flung the concrete snow away into low rounded igloo-esque structures.

To Old Girl's surprise, Etsy took to snow removal. She was a one-woman excavator, chugging along like a machine with the one shovel each team was given. Why they couldn't all have shovels for the Sisyphean task of moving two tons of snow was anyone's guess. Welcome to Inner Horizons, a trip through interior and exterior and subterranean hell.

Reza wandered off during the digging to bug James, so Old Girl and Etsy hunkered down and concentrated on snow removal until they had a space big enough for maybe a fox or a small coyote to crawl into. The instructions were to construct walls that were three feet wide which was enough to conserve body heat. They'd followed Josh's instructions to create a round domed space and dig a trench below the level of the cave floor that would form a narrow tunnel for an entrance. Theoretically, the heat would rise and with three of them huddled together in the cave, their bodies would generate enough warmth to keep them alive in a snow storm. Theoretically.

At the end of two hours, Old Girl could barely shimmy on her belly through the passage to a dim, lumpen space that was impossible to turn around it. It felt cold and clammy lying on snow in your wet Capilene underwear shirt and rain pants that were soaked with sweat. Maybe you wouldn't freeze to death but you sure as hell would want to if you had to spend a night with Reza and Estie stranded in the woods.

Estie was outside, chugging away with the shovel, in some kind of unfathomable rhythm that Old Girl declined to interrupt. She lay on her back in the dim, claustrophobic space, listening to a muffled sound of whooping and shouting that was moving toward her in the grayish darkness. She was trying to imagine how much longer it was going to take for her and Estie to move enough snow to clear enough space for an Etsy-sized person, the hell with fucking Reza.

It was not that easy to flip onto her stomach with the ceiling nearly in her face and she stopped to consider how she was going to back feet first out of the skinny entrance tunnel when more whooping and hollering sounded above her.

Without warning, a giant weight whumpfed down on her back.

Old Girl's face was buried in wet snow in the well of her outstretched arms. It felt like a giant rhinocerous was standing on her head and back. It was dark and she had a nose and mouthful of snow and she could barely lift her head an inch to breathe because wet concrete encased her head to toe.

A cave in?

The astonishing idea that she couldn't move, that she was completely paralyzed, that she couldn't even wiggle or move her toes, in the suffocating blackness that surrounded her, was followed by the even more astonishing thought that she'd just been buried alive doing exactly what Inner Horizons had told her to do! She'd been following instructions to the letter and now she was being crushed to death and no more than a few feet from a dozen people, she was running out of air. I'm dying. There is a God. Her last cogent thoughts.

"Crap! Crap! Crap!" Somebody was singing a repetitive mantra that sounded like a rapper's prayer.

Old Girl came to on her back in the snow with Josh's mouth over her open mouth. He was giving her mouth-to-mouth resuscitation which was slightly icky because she could taste left-over tuna fish on his breath and oddly, she could feel her own chest rise and fall with the strange sensation of someone blowing warm air and tuna-fish into her diaphragm.

She wanted to tell Josh she was all right. She wanted to say that she was okay, she was awake. She wanted to say she was conscious and aware that Reza was dancing next to Josh like a demented imp singing "crapcrapcrap" in a holy litany while Josh knelt above her and breathed for her into her lungs.

It seemed to take forever before she was able to wave one hand around or pat at him, trying to get his attention. She couldn't seem to put it together to turn her face away from Josh's mouth. Words wouldn't form though she seemed to be thinking the words and they wouldn't come out until she choked out a deep racking cough.

"Oh holy Christ, she's alive!" Josh cried.

Old Girl found herself hauled to a sitting position and Etsy, no longer sullen and wide awake, was slobbering on her neck and laughing and Josh was hugging her and laughing and pounding her on the back with tears in his eyes and Reza and all the other kids who'd been lurking in a worried circle were dancing around in the snow like they'd lost their minds.

Then it was her turn to pat Etsy who was now blubbering aloud, with tears running down her pillowy face, saying, "There. There. It's OK. I'm OK. I'm breathing."

The story was that Reza had started lobbing snowballs at James and Rachel and Paul while they worked on their snow cave and while Easy was busy shoveling and Old Girl was scooping out a tunnel for an entrance and then James and Rachel had joined forces with Reza and ganged up on Big Paul and a huge snowball fight with the other teams got rolling and when Etsy got hit in the back of the head with an ice clump, she chased Reza around the the snow caves with her shovel intending to brain him with it as payback. Reza, wiry and skinny and wicked fast, had no trouble running from Etsy but while he was running around her in circles and taunting her with names like Stanker and Tanker, he whipped around the Ponderosa pine where Old Girl and Estie used to lean their cave against, forgetting that they had been digging out the snow under his feet. Estie came after him, shovel raised, and Reza wiggled his skinny ass at her in a little war dance while jumping on the roof of their cave with both feet. As Old Girl understood it, when Old Girl had been thinking about crawling out of the hole backwards to see what all the noise was about, the cave fell in and buried her.

Fucking fuckity fucker Reza quite literally stood on top of Old Girl and did his mating gorilla dance. No wonder she felt like a Mack Truck had driven over her, she thought, as Etsy's pitying crying jag with her little gasps for air and wheezes finally slowed and the big girl's soft shoulders stopped shaking.

The fire and the gallon of lighter fluid that Josh threw in to start the flames were for Old Girl's benefit but because the logs wouldn't really catch, because they were wet and everybody was wet and cold and getting colder by the second, Josh frog-marched her down the trail half-supported by James and Etsy, the strongest people in the group. Old Girl felt light headed. Her ears still rang and though she didn't want to complain, her back felt like it was on fire. It felt good to have two people propping her upright and keeping her feet stumbling along between them.

\<\$n\> Old Girl had an arm draped on Esty's shoulders and Etsy squeezed her at the waist. "If you were dead, I would have killed Reza."

She told Old Girl the news like a little gift. It was Esty's gesture of solidarity, an attempt to make amends for Reza being an idiot and a fuck-wad and a dick.

"Do it anyway," James said. "Then I won't have to keep him as a roommate."

They all laughed.

Reza was down in the front of the line next to Josh who was giving him insta-therapy of the basic, "You're an idiot" and "Don't you ever think?" variety. He plugged along, staring at his feet, and for one magic moment, when Old Girl saw the Inner Horizons blue van up ahead with the sky blue clouds she'd always laughed at, when she felt the body warmth and support of James and Estie flanking her on either side, it felt damn good to be alive.

\#
