---
uid: 01KAGVZWJR11JA8NYCFJJ2MN7P
project: you-da-hoe
source_file: 5. Rusty sees Rachel in tee shirt.docx
converted_date: '2025-11-24T12:25:32.960001'
wordcount: 823
version: 1
---

5\.

SIX DEGREES. COLDER THAN A WITCHES TIT. And getting colder by the minute.

Rusty Harrow was planning to get his trash run done early at Dr. Hazey's nut factory so he could strip the Buick he\'d bought off Craig Nelson at the food store and see if he could get some cash for parts. Pete Petty, who ran the Buick service department, didn\'t mind subbing used parts now and then when people were charged for new. Paid pretty good whatever Rusty sold him. Paid in cash.

Rusty was in lick-and-spin mode It saved his shoulder but a lot of cry baby customers pissed and moaned about the noise. The piss-ants complained about how rolling the steel cans on the bottom rims was hard on 'em. Who cared anyway? Cans were dime a-dozen and frankly he didn't give a shit. It was easier to herk a bin up on its rim and let it roll in a raggedy U up against the truck, then lever it into the stake-bed with a 2x4, insteada hoicking it up over his shoulder which is how he'd hurt it in a first place. He wisht to high heaven he had a hoist, like the city haulers in Spokane, who had the fat ass contract. Buncha lazy-ass bitches didn't have to do jack-shit but jerk a handle and hydraulics did the work.

Rusty Harrow hoicked full-ass garbage cans up over his head all goddamn day. No pansy ass hydraulic doohickey for him. No wonder his neck ached. Maybe he slept on it funny. Couldn't remember now that he thought of it, if he slept at all. All he remembered was drinking his six-pack and pissing off the porch in the middle of the night, thinking the moon looked like a big white ass hanging over the valley.

One of the cans that belonged to the looney-tunes lay on its side by the fence, garbage spilling out of it like it a hoicked-up breakfast. Fucking raccoons, he thought. Or was it fucking coyotes? Rib bones, a turkey carcass, big-ass industrial size tomato cans, Chile con Carne cans, wet newspapers, coffee grounds, and a spray of slimy lettuce spit a swath of color across the snow-packed driveway. He chanted under his breath. Cocksucker, sucking cocksucker, while he scooped garbage with his bare hand back into the can the critters had knocked over. He was trying to decide between a fritter at Gross Donuts or a cinnamon roll as big as his head at Love's Truck Stop at Post Falls when he thought he heard the sound of puking.

He peeked around the corner. To his surprise, he saw a half naked dark-skinned girl puking. She was bent over at the waist, her back to him, and the globes of a muscular black ass topped the longest legs he'd ever seen. A coon girl! She was holding back a frizz of dark curled hair from her face to keep it out of the muck. Legs all the way to heaven. Striped red bikini panties that covered a dark and beckoning vee like an arrow.

The girl puked and heaved, puked and heaved, until nothing came up except spit.

Crouched down, hidden by a juniper bush, he watched her rise from her bent over position, then stand and wipe her mouth. She held onto the side of the building as she walked towards him, brushing away strands of hair at her mouth. A white tee shirt over a mysterious jiggle of fleshy bumps bounced and swayed over a Stockman's Bar logo. "Liquor Up Front" it said.

Rusty ducked around the corner. He waited behind the truck bed to see where she was going. He imagined what the line of bare dark flesh running from the bottom of the white tee shirt to the pale skin of her feet would look like if she sat next to him in the cab of his truck. He\'d never had a woman in the truck. Certainly never one with a bare ass that put Hustler magazine to shame. She toed past him on her tippy toes as if she was trying to keep her heels off the snow.

He musta moved because she caught sight of him when she passed the truck. She muttered something that sounded like you're sick. You're a dick? He couldn\'t make out the words. His hard on was sharp enough to split wood. All he could hear was a roar in his ears.

She scurried past, ran up the front steps and pounded on the front door. Her bare ass cheeks showed white-pink crescents underneath the shirt. Another Stockman's Bar logo on the back.

Fatso Charlene Hightman, the one he went to grade school with, opened the front door. All the air whooshed out of him. He read the words on the back of the shirt, slowly. With growing wonder.

*Poker in the rear.*

Oh my God, she wants me.

\#
