---
uid: 01KAGW2G2Y5VMWEV6SZEFVBX52
project: you-da-hoe
source_file: 50. OG listens to Processing of snow burial.docx
converted_date: '2025-11-24T12:24:50.612433'
wordcount: 755
version: 1
---

**50.**

OLD GIRL WAS UNACCOUNTABLY MESMERIZED by Process Group the day after the snow cave fell in.

Eugene, who was Reza and Paul's therapist, asked Reza to read his accountability statement first. Old Girl had tried to sit in her usual spot, the chair everybody fought over that she liked to drag behind the couch, so she could stare out the windows and do her usual daydreaming.

\"None of that,\" Eugene said to her. "You're on the couch today." He fixed Reza with a judgmental eye and said, "Reza has something he wants to say to you.\"

Reza had the expression of a prisoner in front of the parole board, if the prisoner weighed 120 pounds and had a big Jewish schnoz and a case of ants in his home-boy pants.

He read from a much crumpled piece of paper in a halting, husky tone. \"Didn\'t think\...wasn\'t paying attention\...never meant\...horsing around ...,\" Old Girl caught perhaps one word in ten because Reza\'s voice tightened and stretched thin and stammered as he tried to breathe and express himself at the same time. She was watching his mouth, trying to make out what he was saying, when she felt a corresponding tightness in her own chest.

Oh holy shit.

Reza kept blinking like he was fighting back tears and Old Girl felt a matching heat and scratchiness behind her eyeballs. Shit no! this isn\'t going to turn into a cry fest, is it? The last thing she heard Reza say in his strangled New Jersey accent was \"So fuckin' sorry.\"

The crazy ass fruitcake lunged at her from the opposite couch and threw his skinny arms around her and before she knew it, everybody was on the feet and joining in a group hug, like a horrible, constricting football scrum. Etsy was pounding Reza on the back and Old Girl could feel her friendly blows through Reza\'s body, while Etsy seemed torn between congratulating the little shit and giving him shaken baby syndrome.

Everybody talked at once about their part in Old Girl's rescue.

James said \"I\'ve never shoveled snow faster in my life.\"

\"Do you know how hard it is to dig snow with nothing but your bare hands?\" Rachel's voice was as wobbly as her smile.

\"Josh screamed out 'Old Girl\'s gonna die under there' and we all went crazy,\" Manuela, who used to be Manuel six months ago he/she---they?---came into the program, said.

Everybody at Group wanted her to know how hard they fought to get her old. Old Girl had been blissfully in the dark, pressed down by what felt like a hundred tons of snow so she had no idea what they\'d gone through to get her out. People were showing off their hand scrapes and broken nails. \"It was easier to scoop without my fucking gloves but by the time we found your jacket, my hands were totally numb.\" Rachel said, holding out red and cold-chapped hands.

Old Girl had been in plenty of Group sessions where people cried and she thought she was inured to it. Somebody was always losing it, either with shame or grief or rage. But she had always been able to build up her own snow cave around her inner self with walls that were more than three feet thick. Now it felt like all those bodies furiously digging and shoveling with their hands and feet, were threatening her very foundations.

When she tried to extricate herself from all that body heat, yet another person would touch her touch her hair or pat her on the back or squeeze her arm, as if they were trying to reassure themselves that she was still alive.

Normally she turned her internal temperature down to minus-40 in Group. Now she was so hot, she was sweating.

The last time they\'d taken everybody to North Star to snow board, she\'d dropped a glove and it was so cold on the chair lift, the pinkie on her bare hand had began to freeze. When she went into to warm up in the Lodge, the pinkie finger came down with a terrible case of pins and needles. Hundreds of sharp pricking points that hurt so bad she could barely breathe.

In the bathroom, when she\'d finally been able to extricate herself from the scrum, she felt like the horrible needles were back. Her heart was being poked by a thousands surgically sharpened points that made her long for the old deep freeze even though the walls seemed to be irrevocably cracked.

\#
