---
uid: 01KAGW2AAJBYK9H7VRSY07NXZF
project: you-da-hoe
source_file: 6. Lydia realizes she likes Lorenzo.docx
converted_date: '2025-11-24T12:24:53.812684'
wordcount: 598
version: 1
---

6\.

LYDIA LEFT THE ALLEY BEHIND Dunkin' Donuts and she stopped at the corner to decide whether to kill time by shopping at the shitty low-end shops in downtown Coeur d\'Alene or walk back to campus.

Across the street, she saw a big red haired man leaving the Povarello Center wearing a big back pack with a steel frame. He looked like a mountain man off to the back woods until he bent to untie a wolf-size dog from a parking meter and she realized it was Lorenzo.

\"What are you doing here?\" she called across the traffic.

He crossed over when there was a break in the cars, the dog trotting like a sentry behind him. \"I live here.\"

\"Isn\'t that a homeless center?\"

He shrugged. \"I told you I got thrown out. It beats sleeping on the sidewalk." Lydia automatically reached for her wallet. She was so used to having money she forgot for a moment that her checkbook and her credit cards and a pile of cash had been taken from her and locked up in the Inner Horizon safe. All she had in her wallet was \$3 in change.

\"What are you looking for?\" Lorenzo asked.

\"I was going to give you money for a hotel but I forgot they took away my credit cards.\"

\"I don\'t need a hotel. The Pov Center is great. They\'ve been letting Joseph Smith stay in the mud room.\"

"Who's Joseph Smith? And how come they won't give him a bed?"

Lorenzo laughed. "Because he's a dog, nimrod."

He made a hand gesture to Joseph Smith who sat down with a sigh at his feet. The dog looked like it had some German shepherd in it, with a mouth that turned up in a perpetual grin.

Lydia, who'd never been allowed a dog, held out her hand tentatively to let him smell her but he emitted a low grumbling sound, part warning, part question mark.

\"He\'s protective,\" Lorenzo said. \"Keeps me safe.\" He looked around at the dive bars on either side of the Poverello Center. \"It\'s not the best neighborhood. What are you doing here?\"

She wasn\'t about to tell him about the dumpster behind Dunkin' Donuts. She wondered if the sweet reak had followed her from the alley to the stoplight."\"I was going to do some shopping."

He looked skeptically at the Deja View lounge sign with a naked woman. "Here?"

"Window shopping isn't a crime," she said.

He picked up the rope that served as the wolf-dog\'s leash and said, "Sorry I can't talk to you longer. I can't be late for my job.\"

\"I didn\'t know you got a job."

One red wiry eyebrow lifted quizzically. \"You don\'t know much about being homeless, do you?\"

At the Deja View, a man in a business suit peered intently at the crotchless panty display in the window.

\"Work. Paycheck. Rent money? Get it?" Lorenzo said.

She held an empty Prada billfold in her hand which probably cost more than it cost to stay for a month at the Povarello Center.

\"See you in Sociology tomorrow?" Lorenzo whistled to the dog but turned back to hear her answer.

"Sure," she called. "But you didn't tell me where your job is."

\"McDonald's." He grinned. \"Ever heard of it?\"

\"You\'re mean."

\"That\'s because I'm the one who lives on the mean streets."

She walked back to campus without detouring to any of the shops on Main Street. What she wanted wasn\'t in any stupid Idaho cafe' or shop. Was it serving hamburgers and French fries at the Arches?

\#
