---
uid: 01KAGVNQSZVCB85NZJYEQQBN5F
project: you-da-hoe
source_file: 6.pages
converted_date: '2025-11-24T19:47:30.267116'
wordcount: 2042
version: 1
---

Four

Lydia waited for James in the unheated bathroom off the living room. She was standing in a cast iron tub the size of an iceberg. Naked from the waist down, wearing thin cotton socks, It felt like she was standing on a block of ice.

In two hours---exactly one hour and 56 minutes, according to Grandpa Ben[']{dir="rtl"}s birthday present of a Piaget watch ---Lydia[']{dir="rtl"}s mother Rahel was coming to visit . If James didn[']{dir="rtl"}t fuck her brains out right now, she wouldn[']{dir="rtl"}t be able to keep herself from falling apart.

She[']{dir="rtl"}d already checked her wallet. The \$20 bill she[']{dir="rtl"}d hijacked from Darlene[']{dir="rtl"}s purse during the new girl[']{dir="rtl"}s epileptic fit was safely tucked away. It would cover the cost of the nail polish remover to get rid of her black nails. It would also pay for a French manicure with perfect white crescents, a service that cost \$60 bucks on New York[']{dir="rtl"}s upper East Side and \$15 in Coeur d[']{dir="rtl"}Alene. The one good thing about Idaho.

If she[']{dir="rtl"}d known Rahel would show up in Couer D[']{dir="rtl"}alene, she[']{dir="rtl"}d never have gone Goth Girl.

Looking around at the oak veneer in the faux country bathroom---even the toilet seat was blond oak---Lydia made a note to herself to remember to stash her cheap-ass Betsey Johnson knock-off tote on Esty[']{dir="rtl"}s side of the room.

She[']{dir="rtl"}d had it drilled into her by both her mother that only poor people wore fakes. People with money intuitively knew what was real. Lydia had studied in Lausanne, Switzerland, at a girl[']{dir="rtl"}s school for four years, went to private school for three years in Grosse Point when she lived with Grandpa Ben and Adele, then during a brief fling Rahel had with a Superintendent of Public Schools, she went to NY public school in Manhattan for less than a semester. Rahel took her out of PS #19 in a NY minute the day Lydia came home with head lice. Most of high school was spent back in Switzerland at a different girl[']{dir="rtl"}s school, where they taught her how to dress in deportment classes and she taught herself how to undress under the lacrosse bleachers with the assistant coach.

Even in authentic Jimmy Choos, Rahel would be faster than Lydia in running shoes. Her mother kept herself tiny as a ferret and she was always harping after Lydia to lose weight. If Lydia[']{dir="rtl"}s weight went up two pounds, it was social suicide on Rahel Bronfman[']{dir="rtl"}s scale. What man would want you if you were fat?

The first thing Lydia planned to do after Rahel took off on her Lear jet was to run downtown to Dunkin[']{dir="rtl"} Donuts and stuff herself with every cake donut and cream cruller on the shelf. She[']{dir="rtl"}d imagine her mother looking at the clouds at thirty-thousand feet while her daughter scarfed donut after donut. Then Lydia would open her mouth and vomit everything she[']{dir="rtl"}d swallowed into the maw of the second hand purse her mother had left behind for her birthday. That[']{dir="rtl"}s what I think of your stinking birthday present, Mom.

Lydia wondered what in hell was keeping James. She pushed away the image of the new girl[']{dir="rtl"}s blond ponytail thumping the hardwood. The sightless eyes rolled up white. The wild tattoo of her heels. Lydia[']{dir="rtl"}s Godzilla itch for sex, as relentless and bad as it was, was at least on the inside of Lydia[']{dir="rtl"}s body, hidden with all the other horrible things she kept locked up . Only she knew she was freakishly ugly and disgusting inside of what the world saw as a petite and perfectly maintained body. It was a small mercy that she didn[']{dir="rtl"}t have to wear her ugliness on the outside like the epileptic[']{dir="rtl"}s hair shirt.

She had been so hoping the new arrival at Inner Horizons would be a boy. Actually, a hella-boy with a hella-Godzilla-itch to match. She had been seriously bummed on Saturday when a tall, bleary-eyed blond named Rachel stumbled into breakfast wanting coffee. The expression on her face when Gretchen told her she could only have herbal tea!

Another of Inner Horizon[']{dir="rtl"}s rules with no reason. It was just as impossible to answer as the question of why no boy ever wanted anything to do with Lydia outside of sex. She let them do the most amazing things to her and she did equally amazing things to them and then they ran like hell with their shirt buttons askew or their jeans unzipped, the smell of sex trailing after them like skunk. Were guys like James, who were clueless in most things, somehow onto her desire to make them weak? Once they got what they wanted, did they intuit that she didn[']{dir="rtl"}t have anything else to give? What else would you give someone when you already gave them access to your body? No clue.

Yesterday after marathon monkey sex in the girl[']{dir="rtl"}s restroom at Northern Idaho Community College where she[']{dir="rtl"}d started taking classes, James had muttered, ["]{dir="rtl"}I feel dirty."

She felt like he[']{dir="rtl"}d slapped her. ["]{dir="rtl"}I took a shower this morning!"

["]{dir="rtl"}No. It[']{dir="rtl"}s..." James thought for a long moment as if trying to order his thoughts. ["]{dir="rtl"}You[']{dir="rtl"}re like a Hoover. So mechanical."

["]{dir="rtl"}You liked it two minutes ago."

["]{dir="rtl"}I[']{dir="rtl"}m sorry. I don[']{dir="rtl"}t mean to be an asshole. It just feels ... ah... impersonal."

James had been buried balls deep behind her and that was impersonal?

James was holding a spent condom between his thumb and forefinger like a rat corpse when in fact, the slimy thing was filled with his own sperm. ["]{dir="rtl"}You make me feel used," he said.

That was how Lydia was feeling the longer she waited. She couldn[']{dir="rtl"}t make up her mind whether she was jouncing harder for sex or for a confetti-covered cake donut. Both of them would go down in two minutes and but only one of them would come back up in a satisfying swirl of green and blue and pink.

That was the real reason she was locked up in Idaho. Her orthodontist in Grosse Point had ratted her out to Grandpa Ben and Gramma Elaine, telling them that the back sides of her teeth were pitted as a forty-year-old[']{dir="rtl"}s. What a shit show. If she couldn[']{dir="rtl"}t fill herself up with sex, she had to fill herself up with food, but there was no fucking way she[']{dir="rtl"}d ever be fat. No one would fuck her if she was fat. No fucking if she got fat and yet, she was always so empty. No wonder when she looked in the mirror, she was always surprised to see her reflection.

Early in Lydia[']{dir="rtl"}s young life she had loved to look at herself in the mirror.

Her first memory was of skating down the long mirrored hall of the big house in Grosse Point calling \"Mom\'s coming. Mom\'s coming!\" Her nanny had told her that her mother was coming home from Europe. For hours Lydia skated the main hall in her bare socks. Back and forth. Back and forth.

Grandma Elaine finally told her she\'d wear out the floorboards if she didn\'t quit. What was funny about the memory is that Lydia remembered almost nothing about her mother[']{dir="rtl"}s actual visit. A cloud of perfume, maybe. Her mother\'s low, assessing voice. \"My, you\'re not very big,\" she told her, as if that was somehow Lydia[']{dir="rtl"}s fault.

It was the expectation of being judged that stuck. Learning that her hair was too curly or her legs too thin or her voice had too much Detroit in it. Once, Lydia heard her mother call her "the little Jew\" and when she learned later that it was the mother[']{dir="rtl"}s blood that defined Jewishness, it didn[']{dir="rtl"}t make sense.

It wasn[']{dir="rtl"}t till much later, when she actually lived with her mother in New York that she learned to have no expectations. Why she had such a visceral memory of watching herself slide along the waxed floor, she had no idea. That day, it felt like she was flying with her hands out ready to catch the thing that was coming with great joy.

It was only when she got what she was expecting that she realized her hands were empty.

By the time James shoved the shower rings open, Lydia was already clawing her way up his long, thin body and scissoring her legs around his waist. She groped at his belt buckle, trying to undo it and unzip his pants at the same time. ["]{dir="rtl"}C[']{dir="rtl"}mon! Hurry!" She was feeling like the top of her head was going to blow off. She couldn[']{dir="rtl"}t tell if he was thrown by her weight or was simply speechless because her tongue was already halfway down his throat. He was just starting to kiss her back when the door to the bathroom banged open. *Clomp clomp clomp*. Someone in clogs passed the curtained tub and settled on the toilet. The thunder of a cow pissing on a flat rock. James[']{dir="rtl"} eyes widened and locked with Lydia[']{dir="rtl"}s. She could feel silent laughter shaking his chest and she had to bite her lips to keep from snorting.

Thankfully, Healing House[']{dir="rtl"}s ancient pipes saved them from being overheard.

When the door shut, a pent up laugh flew out of Lydia like a caged bird.

["]{dir="rtl"}Shit," James breathed into her ear, ["]{dir="rtl"}that was close."

["]{dir="rtl"}Not as close as this, big boy." Lydia grappled at his belt buckle but James checked her hands.

["]{dir="rtl"}I can[']{dir="rtl"}t. That new girl... I thought she was dying," James said, holding her away with stiff arms.

I[']{dir="rtl"}m dying, Lydia thought, feeling an unfamiliar moment of empathy for the epileptic girl who[']{dir="rtl"}d just had her body hi-jacked by a seizure. Her emptiness was unbearable enough without any flopping or jerking.

["]{dir="rtl"}You don[']{dir="rtl"}t have to think! Just feel!" She hauled at his belt buckle, thinking he was kidding. ["]{dir="rtl"}C[']{dir="rtl"}mon!"

["]{dir="rtl"}No!" James straight-armed her in torso. ["]{dir="rtl"}What the hell is wrong with you?"

["]{dir="rtl"}Nothing!" She patted at the area below his belt, looking for evidence of welcome. When she came up flat, she said, ["]{dir="rtl"}What[']{dir="rtl"}s wrong with you?"

["]{dir="rtl"}Didn[']{dir="rtl"}t you see that girl? The way her eyes rolled up in her head?"

Lydia[']{dir="rtl"}s thighs were wiry and toned from years of gymnastics and ballet . She tightened them into a death grip but James, who was a foot taller and way stronger, pushed her relentlessly down past his knees like a donut.

["]{dir="rtl"}Don[']{dir="rtl"}t hold out on me!" she wailed.

["]{dir="rtl"}I[']{dir="rtl"}m not. I just ..." James hesitated.

In the pause, she shot up and slapped him as hard as she could.

["]{dir="rtl"}What the hell?" James[']{dir="rtl"}s cheek flushed bright red where her hand had lit his skin like a flare. ["]{dir="rtl"}Why[']{dir="rtl"}d you do that!?"

["]{dir="rtl"}I need it!"

Now the flush looked more like a trouble light on James[']{dir="rtl"}s cheek. ["]{dir="rtl"}For someone who wants to get laid, you[']{dir="rtl"}re not exactly turning me on."

["]{dir="rtl"}Dick head!"

" What? Is that supposed to make me hot?"

["]{dir="rtl"}Fucking dick!" They were both huffing like whales at the surface. Lydia felt a rising volcanic pressure in her chest that was making it hard to breathe.

James was already backing away from her. He stepped out of the tub, jangling the curtain rings like an alarm bell.

["]{dir="rtl"}You fucking faggot!" she cried. ["]{dir="rtl"}You can[']{dir="rtl"}t get it up. You can only get it up for a guy!"

James[']{dir="rtl"}s head jerked up. The red on his cheek bones where she slapped him burned bright in blue-white skin.

["]{dir="rtl"}Limp dick! ["]{dir="rtl"}Her openhanded slap snapped his head back. ["]{dir="rtl"}Dickless wonder!" Another slap.

["]{dir="rtl"}You weren[']{dir="rtl"}t calling me names an hour ago!" James was referring to the quickie she gave him before breakfast up against the back wall of the Healing House garage when they were supposed to be cleaning up the trash that the raccoons had strewn around the garbage bins the night before.

That was then, this is now, she thought. ["]{dir="rtl"}Faggot!"

James had his hand on the white, porcelain door knob and for a deranged instant, Lydia had the impression he was fondling a skull. ["]{dir="rtl"}Why would I fuck you?" he said. ["]{dir="rtl"}You[']{dir="rtl"}re fucking crazy."

The bathroom door shut with the sound of clicking and bumping ice. Lydia let her body slide down in the tub until her head rested on the cold white porcelain edge while she watched the ice floe drift away from land.

.

\#
