---
uid: 01KAGWG8G2GSCS019M0G716CGQ
project: you-da-hoe
source_file: 7. Margaret feeds Lydia, talks to her about name calling.docx
converted_date: '2025-11-24T12:21:05.546276'
wordcount: 1678
version: 1
---

7\.

MARGARET LEANED NONCHALANTLY AGAINST THE COUNTER trying to keep her face neutral while Lydia ate ate three slices of apple and a monkey\'s nibble of cheese. At this rate, the glaciers would melt before she was done.

Every day a new outfit. Today, it was shiny new Italian boots and never-worn jeans with a big seven embroidered on the back pocket. Why you'd advertise your size if you were larger than a seven wasn't something Margaret understood.

Some of the clothes in Lydia's closet still had the tags on them which did nothing to hide the Costco size box of Snickers bars stuffed in the back. For a kid who wasn\'t hungry, Lydia had enough sweets to put the world into a diabetic coma. Where she put all that crap in her elf-size frame was anybody\'s guess.

Still Margaret felt grimly sorry for her. All the money in the world, apparently, but not a single letter from home. In a place where kids lived for mail call, you might as well admit you were raised by wolves.

Margaret had caught her dumping her breakfast in the trash when she thought nobody was looking. She wanted to say to the girl, \"What? So you think I was born yesterday?" If the treatment program didn't have strict rules about touching any of the participants, she'd shake her. She\'d be hauled out on her ass in a flash if Dr. Hazy got wind of anything that smacked of corporal punishment.

So Margaret concentrated on folding her arms like a saint and watching the girl chew. Lydia was skinny to the point of blowing away \-- a bulimic, which wasn't news to Margaret who had the pleasure of cleaning the confetti flecks of vomit from the girl's toilet. Gretchen always cut up and weighed every bite on Lydia\'s plate and wrote down every calorie they were trying to stuff into her so she wouldn\'t starve. The way Lydia was glaring at the cheese in her hand, Margaret expected the girl to toss it over her shoulder like salt as soon as Margaret turned her back.

\"You need protein." Margaret tried for a conversational tone. \"Builds your bones and your teeth.\"

Lydia bared her orthodontia-perfect whites. \"My teeth are fine."

\"You don\'t want to go to Stabilization, do you? Eat up and I won\'t say anything. Seriously, I don\'t want to get you into trouble.\"

That was true but to be honest, Margaret didn\'t want to get herself in trouble more. She was already in Dutch for mouthing off to Gretchen, \"the registered dietician,\" as she was always reminding Margaret. They'd gone to high school together and Gretchen loved to bring up the fact that Margaret had gotten pregnant in their senior year and had to drop out. A sore subject after more than twenty years. Apparently the statute of limitations on shame never ran out.

More to make conversation than anything, Margaret asked, "Why do you and James call Reza 'Apu?'

"Because it pisses him off," said Lydia, without missing a beat.

"Who's Apu? Someone you know at school?"

"From the Simpsons? You know. The little guy who runs the Korean store."

"I don't watch much TV."

"We don't either because you won't let us," Lydia said, with some resentment.

"Hey, not my rules," said Margaret. "I just enforce them.""

"Apu's the little brown guy. The Indian." Lydia spoke in a high, sing-songy accent,"I want you to get out and go to hell and thank you and come again."

Margaret shook her head. No idea.

Lydia tried again. "Shiva H. Vishnu! What was that?"

Margaret said doubtfully, "Maybe I remember him."

Down went a minuscule amount of cheese. Watching Lydia eat was like watching paint dry when it was just about to rain. Margaret gestured to the food on Lydia's plate. "Come on, hurry it up."

"I'm watching my weight," Lydia said. "Not like some people."

"I'm watching my weight too," said Margaret. "It just keeps goes up."

"That will never happen to me."

"You'll be surprised. Your metabolism changes as you get older." Especially when donuts and apple fritters and whole baskets of chips jump into the grocery cart of their own accord.

"What do you think it is that bugs him about being called Apu?" Margaret asked, now really wanting to know. It sounds like the little Indian guy is funny."

He's a stereotype. And besides, Reza is from Pakistan."

Margaret had no idea what difference that made. "Well, lay off it anyway. It hurts his feelings and that's all that matters."

"Trade you an apple slice for an Apu," Lydia said, holding out her plate.

"Deal." Margaret took the applie slice and ate it with a piece of cheese.

"Pakistan and Indian are like mortal enemies or something," Lydia said."That's what Reza told me."

"Aren't they neighbors?"

"Beats me. It's different religions. Reza's Muslim."

"I know he doesn't eat pork," said Margaret, thinking of Gretchen's lame vegetarian substitution of a defrosted garden burger every time she threw a pork shoulder into the crockpot and called it "jerked."

With Margaret's lack of schooling, her grasp of geography wasn't any stronger than her grasp of history. She remembered something about Britain ruling India. British partition? There was some kind of war between the countries back in the day, she thought. People stabbed and murdered on trains? What that had to do with Reza and his complaints about racist comments from his peers, she didn't really know. She'd heard about his complains at Staff Meeting.

"We just do it to annoy him," Lydia said.

"Well, quit doing it. It's hurtful."

"How else are we supposed to entertain ourselves? You took away the TV and all our electronics. It's a desert here."

"Doesn't mean it has to be a war zone. It's not worth it. Reza can't help being ADD."

"What?"

Lydia was smiling at her. What a difference those lovely teeth made to her usual resting bitch face. Then she realized Lydia had slid her plate next to her and Margaret had been absently eating the girl's cheese.

"Shit!" she cried. "You tricked me."

"Go ahead," said Lydia. "Trade you an apple slice for an Apu."\
Margaret watched her own hand reach out and pile a piece of cheese onto an apple slice, like it belonged to someone else. "You!" She was laughing helplessly with Lydia. "Now I'll have to give myself a one for eating your lunch."

"Could be worse, Margaret. I could have called you 'Homer.'"

\"One more slice,\" Margaret nodded at the girl's plate. \"And you can go catch the school shuttle.\"

The girl grabbed the elegant Balenciaga bag that probably cost as much as Margaret made in a month and shoved oneapple slice into her mouth as she huffed out of the kitchen and slammed the door.

\"You have a nice day, too." Busted, Margaret thought, absently touching her finger to the cheese crumbs in order to hoover the rest of them up.

Outside the clank and rattle of garbage cans sounded over the hum of the departing van.

The kids who had passed their first three months in Intensive without violations were allowed to attend Northern Idaho Community College. The rest were doing some group therapy in the living room. The therapists called it Group but the kids, always on the lookout for name-calling, called it Grope. They called stick-up-her butt Gretchen, "Grinchen." They had a point. The woman couldn\'t cook her way out of a paper bag and she was mean to boot. How could you burn oatmeal and serve it with a straight face? That was what Lydia, the picky eater, had been dumping in the trash and really, how could you blame her? Margaret wouldn\'t eat Gretchen\'s cooking if they paid her and they certainly didn\'t.

Rusty Harrow\'s slope-shouldered simian form passed by the kitchen window. He had a garbage can strapped to his back and the lid was askew. aA trail of grapefruit rinds and coffee grounds followed him like garbage man was spewing out of his pores.

Margaret watched Rusty stop at a window of the girl\'s wing. He wasn't suspended with the empty garbage bin on his back and staring into one of the girl's rooms. Margaret felt a flutter of unease. What was he looking at so intently?

It was the room one closest to the laundry room next to the back door that was always kept locked. The lock was mostly to keep the kids in but Margaret supposed it was possible that it could keep bad things out. It wasn't something they worried about ten miles out of town.

Margaret stood at the sink, washing pots and pans while Gretchen was supposedly doing meal planning at the table. It looked like Gretchen was researching ways to fuck up tomato soup.

Dr. Hazey, late for work as usual, was just pulling into the parking area in his brand new Lexus SUV as Rusty Harrow's old pig truck pulled out. The pig truck had a home-made stake bed made out of 2x4s that was doing a shitty job of holding the garbage cans in and it looked like Hazey was playing chicken with him.

At the last possible moment, Hazey stepped on the gas and used the ice under the tires to fishtail the SUV around the truck so he could land in the space next to the entrance that had his name on a placard. The therapist of the month was supposed to have the closest spot to Healing House but apparently the bloom was off that rose because Hazey parked squarely in the middle of both spots.

Rusty saluted like Hazey was his commanding officer and Dr. Hazey shot him a quizzical expression as if he'd never seen the garbage man before.

Honestly. Rusty had been picking up garbage for the Program since Hazey had bought the property from his dad. The old man had died in a suspicious trailer fire but those Harrows weren't any of them talker. Was there any chance that forgetfulness was catching?
