---
uid: 01KAGW37Q4123ZCEBKW34ERG0Y
project: you-da-hoe
source_file: 8. James first try at accountability letter.docx
converted_date: '2025-11-24T12:24:34.994781'
wordcount: 679
version: 1
---

\<\$W\>

WHITE PAGE. WHITE SHROUDED TREE. White lawn drifted into alien shapes that reminded James of a Hieronymous Bosch nightmare done in white. Even the people who'd lived their lives in Idaho were shaking their heads at the record-breaking snowfall.

A raven scraped across the sky outside the window in the library carrel where James labored. Its dark shadow looked like a line of handwriting jerking across an empty page.

What James was supposed to do in his Impact Letter was own up to his behaviors. "Take accountability" for all the shit he'd done to his parents. There were two big problems with the assignment due for his family therapy call today. Problem One. James couldn't remember half the shit he'd done in his alcohol and weed and purple drank fog. Problem Two was he didn't *want* to remember what he'd done.

At night, around two or three AM, odd flashes of memory continually woke him. A cracked windshield. A girl with a red hair band toking a joint. A curved canyon road lined by black weedy chasms. He cracked a breath mint and even the taste brought back the eucalyptus smell that filled the Corvette in his first waking moments after the crash.

Why would anybody want to take accountability for walking away from the sound of labored breathing? Who would have thought there could be so much blood? James had a crappy paperback copy of Macbeth in his backpack, cadged from the Healing House library. In his first months of incarcerated boredom before he'd earned the right to take a few classes, he'd whipped through all the thrillers and spy novels, even the romances which gave him a lesson on how much girls liked oral sex. Now he was down to the stuff nobody else would read. What blew him away is his discovery that he'd been eating cotton candy when raw steak was available. Had Lady MacBeth been there the night of the crash?

He read the start of his list out loud. "I got in a car crash while stoned." Did it sound better to write *I got stoned and the car got away from me*? A memory of leaning over to toke a joint that the girl -- he didn't even know her name \--held out to him. *A girl in a red hair band asked me to give her a ride to a party in Topanga Canyon*. *I thought I was saving her from taking the bus.*

James brushed the memory of the crash away like the glass shards that had littered his lap.

*I stole money.*

It wasn't like taking twenty or thirty bucks from the cash drawer his mom left for the house cleaners was a giant deal. Fungible. A new word he learned in Intro to Humanities with Dr. Lengel. Mom, a neurologist with an international reputation, replenished the drawer like clockwork every few weeks. What was a fungible fifty or a five hundred between family members?

He checked the clock on the library wall. An hour already gone. Mrs. Lengel had pointed out a list sentence in Huck Fin about rafting on the Mississippi that lazed on for 174 words. Her advice*: When you're stuck you can always write a list..*

*Lying*

*Drinking*

*Getting stoned on cough syrup mixed with codeine*

*Skipping class*

*Writing prescriptions from Dr. Ida's prescription pad*

*Selling household items to buy Circle-K*

Dad hadn't said anything but James waited during every Family Call to be asked about the missing Patek Phillippe watch.

James circled back and scratched out the prescription pad admission. Maybe Mom, who was brilliant with axonal connections and glioblastomas and meningiomas, was still clueless about what James had been up to. He had a blank pad or two hidden away in his underwear drawer, just in case.

What else?

Just cover the big stuff Josh had said. Where did *walked away from a bleeding lump* *in the passenger seat* fall? Was there some category beyond the big stuff for the heinous?

He shut the notebook, releasing the heinous with the raven.

Nevermore.
