---
uid: 01KAGWMW7TFAQYH5V3H6XEAHF9
project: you-da-hoe
source_file: 9. Rachel has a Migraine.docx
converted_date: '2025-11-24T12:19:46.711419'
wordcount: 1010
version: 1
---

9\.

CLANK. BAM! WHANGGGGG!

Rachel started up like she\'d been shot. She looked at the neon numbers of the clock. 6:15? Jesus. Then she settled back in the warm sheets and put the pillow over her head. Why did they have to pick up the garbage at the crack of dawn?

Old Girl, in the bed across the room, groaned in a sleep-groggy voice. \"It\'s part of treatment. It\'s called trash pick-up torture."

Across the room, Old Girl got up and padded to the toilet and sink room they shared with the girls next to them. Double shit. The second the thought of throwing up entered Rachel's consciousness, her mouth filled with saliva.

She'd put their garbage can out in the hall, per the housekeeping rules on Thursday. What else could she throw up in while Old Girl was peeing? OG's cowboy hat? No. She'd kill her. Fluid gathered. Hurling was imminent. With an Aurora Borealis crackling behind her eyeballs, Rachel stumbled out in the hall and bolted a few feet to the back door.

She ran out on the snowy steps barely registering the icy cold on her bare feet as the bile in her stomach thundered out of her. A hot, foul stream of vomit, green flecked and viscous, splattered the white grainy snow in front of her.

It seemed like she retched for an hour. Finally, her stomach let up and she straightened up still woozy, pulling down the underpants that had crept up her butt when she bent over in her tee shirt she slept in. She spit to clear the vomit from her mouth. Thank God, no one was out in the yard to see her with her ass hanging out and barking like a dog. Her feet were going numb. If she didn't get inside quick, frostbite was going to set in to her toes. She was thinking better get inside, as she turned toward the back door.

Wha--!? The door, which she thought she'd left wedged open, had locked itself. She rattled the knob. Naturally, it was locked to keep the inmates in, she thought resentfully, nobody would want to get in on purpose. A pink sunrise haloed the ridge behind Healing House as she picked her way along the long ell of of girl's bedrooms towards the front entrance. She'd have to ring the doorbell. Charleen was Duty today; she'd have to let her in.

She supposed she was going to get a demerit for being outside without permission but what else could she do? Throw up in her bed? She hadn\'t done that since her migraines started around the time she turned nine.

A low growl or maybe a groan -- something that sounded inhuman -- made the hair on the back of her neck stand up. A big rust bucket of a truck loaded with garbage bins was parked at an angle, taking up most of the driveway.

A very dirty, greasy haired man stood half hidden at the back of the truck. He was staring at her like she was breakfast. Was that where the moaning sound had come from? The smell of something rotten rolled off the truck--- or perhaps the filthy man? --- in waves.

"I'm sick," she managed to stammer out. "Now I'm locked out."

He didn\'t say anything. Just stared. It took her a second to remember she was naked under the tee shirt except for underpants. She looked down at herself and realized her boobs were poking out of the cotton like twin headlamps. She skirted around him and darted up the steps and pounded on the door while leaning on the bell. She could almost feel his dirty eyes on her and she pounded harder with her fist.

It seemed like forever before Charlene, finishing her stint as Night Duty, flipped the dead bolt and opened the door with a questioning expression. Rachel pushed past her. Slammed the door with a shudder.

\"What in the world?\" Sleep crumbs clumped in Charleen's lashes. A wrinkle slashed across her cheek from whatever she\'d been laying on.

"I'm getting a migraine. I had to throw up, \" Rachel said. \"Old Girl was in the bathroom. I went outside."

Charlene, not the quickest on the uptake under the best circumstances, couldn\'t seem to put the story together.

\"It\'s like five degrees. You were outside? Puking? In your bare feet?"

Rachel\'s feet, which had lost all feeling, chose that minute to telegraph a thousand pins stabbing at her soles. \"Who\'s that weird guy outside? He scared me.\"

Charlene glanced out the front window. The garbage truck rumbled past on the circular drive, emitting a cloud of black exhaust against the pink promise of dawn. \"Him? That\'s Rusty Harrow. He runs the dump.\"

Rachel didn't remember the tee shirt until she went back to her room where OG was getting dressed. Rachel was wearing one of Old Girl\'s tee shirts that she'd borrowed yesterday. All her clothes were in her laundry bag because she hadn\'t realized you had to put your dirty clothes out in the hall with your garbage if you wanted them washed.

She remembered looking at the shirt when OG handed it to her and wrinkling up her nose when she'd read what it said. \"Where\'d you get this thing? It\'s disgusting.\"

Old Girl laughed at her. "It's from the Stockman's Bar in Missoula, Montana." She shrugged. \"What can I say? It's Montana humor. One of my friends who goes to the U. Of M. gave it to me.\"

The aura behind Rachel\'s eyes was already dimming from a white corona to a pain-filled tunnel. In her migraine-sensitive state, the smell of diesel clogged not just her nose but her entire body as the room went dark at the edges. Eyes like black holes in the man\'s face had been all over her like the foul smell. Liquor up front. Poker in the rear.

Had he read the words on the tee shirt before the door banged shut? She hoped not. She fervently hoped not.

\#
