---
uid: 01KAGVVTS82GW8PJ38VT1JX1T4
project: you-da-hoe
source_file: He peered into the living room, cupping his hands around his eyes, nose
  pressed to the glass to see into the corners..docx
converted_date: '2025-11-24T17:18:10.471375'
wordcount: 1116
version: 1
---

<p>010715 Rusty and the Sanders photos</p>
<p>Rusty and the old man had strapped the new bookshelves to the wall right before Healing House opened. Some kind of earthquake protection required by a government agency. Was there people in the government who oversaw crazy people? If so, why didn’t they govern the old man from beating the skin off his back with his belt when he was deep in a whiskey bottle and mad at anything that moved?</p>
<p>On that day, spanking new paint, new orange shaggy rug, new comfortable couches were set up in a circle that tempted Rusty to take a nap on each one of them when the old man went off to the truck to finish his bottle. One wall was covered with a bunch of photos. When he laid down in the middle couch, old time people looked down on him. There must have been twenty-five, maybe thirty people like a jury behind the circle of couches.</p>
<p>Rusty felt uncomfortable under their scrutiny. Even now, when he thought of Healing House doings, he focused his mind on what was going on in the bedrooms, not the living rom with its gallery of old people who were just as weird as the weirdos who lived there. He couldn’t have articulated what made him feel off standing in front of a gallery of old people, well, not all old, but old time, historical people--old women in black babushka scarves and soldiers in Nazi helmets and a fat cook. Most of them were working people, it looked like; they weren’t in fancy rooms or big houses. Still, they made him feel small, like they were secure standing in their own shoes but their security made him question his own. Who are you, they seemed to ask. Who the fuck do you think you are?</p>
<p>Christ on a crutch, it was cold. Usually, Rusty liked to run his surveillance later when everybody else was asleep but the radio said an artic front was moving south like a freight train and more snow was on the way, which is why Rusty decided to run his reconnaissance maneuvers early. At around 10 PM, a few lights from Healing House still lit up the snow drifts. It didn’t feel like snow. Too fucking cold, if you could believe the wall-mounted thermometer near the Healing House front door. Fucking eight degrees below zero. And getting colder.</p>
<p>He trudged around the back of Healing House, keeping close to the eaves where the snow only skimmed the ground. He worked his way around the boy’s sleeping wing quickly, ducking under the windows which were mostly dark with an occasional reading light projecting a wan ray of warmth. He paused when he got to the corner of the big picture window in the living room with all the couches.</p>
<p>Charleen Hightman—man, they’d had fun in high school chanting “Hymen! Hymen! Charleen’s lost her Hymen,” back in the days before she ballooned up to like two hundred and fifty pounds. The fatso was reading a magazine in the corner of the plaid couch, next to a bag of Cheetos on a coffee table. Her hand dipped orange handfuls from the bag to an orange-tinged mouth like a shovel grader. He bobbed under the window, not that worried about her seeing him in his stealth suit of black down jacket, black ski hat pulled down to cover his face and Carrhardt’s that had never been washed, so they looked black enough. At the opposite corner of the window, he looked back at Charleen who now had a slash of orange Cheeto dust from her cheek. Beyond the mechanical dip-grab-dump motions of her hands, the wall of old time people in gold frames was lit up. The new track lighting hadn’t been installed the day Rusty and the old man strapped the bookshelves to the walls for some kind of earthquake bull shit. That was right before the place opened.</p>
<p>The old man had caught him napping on one of the couches. Nobody else was around so the old man had gone out to the truck for his bottle, which from vast experience, Rusty had judged himself safe for a little shut-eye but he must have slept too long because the next thing he knew, the old man was whaling the shit out of him. You get woken up out of a dead sleep with some one stropping your ass with a belt and you’re not in your right head for a minute. Rusty remembered a dazed feeling of helplessness, his hands covering his head and neck to preserve what was left of his hearing, the old man swearing “Lazy cocksucking cunt! Lazy cocksucking cunt!” with every blow. Somewhere in the middle of the shit storm, Hazey had come in on them and yanked the old man off. He couldn’t exactly recollect what Hazey had said to get the old man to lay off but he had a clear recollection of lying on his side all curled up, his back and kidneys on fire, looking up at a whole jury of people staring down at him from the wall.</p>
<p>He knew he was a lazy cocksucking cunt. His old man had said he was a lazy cocksucking cunt for as long as he could remember and now there were twenty-five or thirty people on the wall, every one of them with “lazy cocksucking cunt” in their eyes.</p>
<p>Hazey had tried to convince him to call the cops on the oled man but how stupid was that. The old man would just beat him with a two-by-four when he got him cornered and as beatings went, a few stripes on his back weren’t worth making a molehill of.</p>
<p>Weird. He hadn’t thought about his old man for years. He blamed it on seeing that wall of old time people again after all these years.</p>
<p>How long had Rusty been standing there? His feet felt like stone, his breath frozen on the picture window glass closest to his mouth. Charleen was still eating. He practically sprinted the rest of the way across the middle of the house, the along the back of the girl’s wing around the front to the blond girl’s window.. He was lucky though it was too fucking cold to watch her for more than a few minutes. Her light was still on and she was hunkered down in a mound of blankets with a book. Everything else in the room was dark. In the circle of lamplight, she looked warm and golden as a match flame. It was all he could do not to climb in with her to get away from the cold.</p>
